This exercise will bring you and your baby together through the breath of life.  In this exercise you will be bring guiding your breath through your lungs and circulatory system into that of your baby and then the baby will give you its waste and carbon dioxide to exhale.  Remember, you are currently one unit functioning as two beings.

Bring yourself either into a sitting position or lying on your left side with a pillow placed between your knees.  The goal here is to be as comfortable and weightless as possible.

This very breath, right now will soon be the oxygen that feeds your baby.

Focus on relaxing your belly and take in a deep breath.

With the next breath imagine this oxygen filling your lungs and entering your heart.

With the next breath imagine this oxygen travelling into your bloodstream and heading downward towards your belly.

Once in the aorta the blood will pump towards your uterine arteries and begin filling the uterus with this oxygen rich connection.

Imagine the uterus as light and energy, warm and pulsating. The pulsations coming from you, surrounding your baby with the sounds of your heart and love.

With the next breath allow the oxygen to pulsate into the placenta filling it with the same love and warmth.  Imagine the placenta filling with each individual breath.

When the placenta is full of love, energy and oxygen allow it pass into the umbilical vein coursing towards the baby.

As the umbilical vein fills with oxygen rich blood notice how it bypasses the baby's lungs (as this breath comes from you) and proceeds to your baby's heart; the heart that you created.  Even inside this little heart is able to take the baton from you and send your oxygen rich gift throughout its own body.  As the baby's body uses the oxygen rich love you have sent allow the baby to let go of carbon dioxide and other wastes and give them to you.  Let your baby know you want this and surround it with the acceptance that you are taking care of everything as only a mother can do.

This blood now courses into the umbilical arteries by the pumping of the baby's heart in cadence with yours and enters the placenta.  With the next exhale now imagine that blood crossing the placenta and entering your vena cava on its way back to your heart.  This blood carries the elements and traces of your baby, this blood has touched every one of your baby's cells.

Once in the heart this blood now pumps into the lungs and on the very next exhale feel the breath that has been inside your baby.  Notice how every breath has the scent of your child and the connection between the two of you.  Allow yourself to stay in this place until your are done and then slowly open your eyes and realize you are always in contact with your little one.

Earth - the grounding the earth pushing back up on you.  This is where the sperm and the egg come together to form the human body.  The body is carbon based and the earth is carbon based.  As the baby moves inside of you it causes movement upon the earth.  The symbolism of the earth being a round egg similar to the maternal egg and how everything comes from that one cell.  We start from the earth and return to the earth.  I like to practice an earth meditation where you simply lie upon the ground and allow your skin to touch the ground beneath you and try to feel the pulsation of the earth.

Connect with the Earth underneath you.  Go out into nature and within a safe place, lie on your left side and allow your bare pregnant belly to touch the ground.  Allow the baby to be supported by the Earth as are you.  If the baby is moving, envision his or her little feet pushing against the Earth through your belly.  One other option is walking a labyrinth or engaging in a walking meditation where every footstep you repeat the name of your unborn baby; if there is no name then choose some other mantra that fits.  You also want to look at your connection with the Earth and the foods that you eat.  You receive vital elements like magnesium, calcium, and iron from the foods you consume; these food provided to you by the sun, water, and Earth.

Fire - synonymous with the heat and pulsation of the blood.  Fire is a cleansing element and is also associated with the raw unpredictable power that can be translated to labor.  Fire is unpredictable like the hormones that are powerful messengers flowing through her blood.  The blood itself being red and rich with oxygen carries vital power to the baby through the placenta and umbilical cord.

A special ceremony involving the unpredictability of fire is allowing the flames to consume your fears.  There is an unpredictability to becoming a mother, whther for the first or fourth time.  Take time to write those fears on separate pieces of paper and after writing them down place them into a paper bag or some other parchment and close them up sealing them away from you forever.  In a safe place (preferably outdoors) light a candle or start a fire.  I would recommend a real fire and not some butane induced simile of a fire.  Once the flames are well underway take your bag of sealed fears and burn them in the fire watching as the smoke rises into the atmosphere.  Envision those fears are being shared with the fears of all the other expectant mothers creating a maternal bond that cannot be broken

Water - obviously water is symbolic for the amniotic fluid.  The amniotic fluid is made mainly from the fetal waste, but it also carries chemicals that are responsible for the maturation of the baby's lungs and it protection and cushions the fetal bones and umbilical cord.  The baby breathes amniotic fluid late in the second trimester as it practices its own breathing technique.  The amniotic fluid can be increased if the woman is well hydrated because what she drinks will go through to the baby and thus if she is increasing her fluid volume it translates that the baby will urinate more and increase the amniotic fluid.

There is a never-ending support that can be formed by water.  The baby is supported in a weightless type of environment and the fluid is just as essential as the oxygen for development.  Plasma makes up the matrix for the red and white blood cells and we all need water to survive.  If you have the benefit of a heated pool or hot tub you can try to warm the water to 99 degrees and submerge yourself in the warmth of the weightless water.  Feel what your baby feels in this warm environment provided by your warmth and love.  Envision that you were also once in this environment and were provided this luxury by your mother and how you are connecting to the eons of mothers that have come before you.