Sexual dysfunction issues such as premature ejaculation, erection problems, erectile dysfunction, anorgasmia, loss of interest in sex impotence, inability to obtain sustain erection,

Psychological Treatments for Premature Ejaculation

Psychological therapies are often used to help in the treatment of premature ejaculation.

FDA Warning Erectile Dysfunction Dietary Ingredients Dangerous to Men's Health

The FDA (Food and Drug Administration) issued a warning in July 2006 about dangerous dietary suppliments advertised on the internet for sexual enhancement. The supplements for erectile dysfunction contain chemicals similar to FDA approved medications. The problem is the drugs are undeclared and there is no guarantee of their safety and effectiveness, or purity.

Impotence Treatments

There have been huge advances in the treatment of impotence in the last few years. Impotence is a very common problem and many men have a problem achieving and or sustaining an erection at some point in their lives. The important thing is if you have a problem that does not seem to be improving you get help. We review the treatments for impotence, also known as erectile dysfuntion.

Sperm Sorter Fertility Hope

A new sperm-sorter machine provides hope for infertile couples by rejecting sperm with damaged DNA

Loss of interest in sex

When men have a loss of interest in sex the reasons are often, but not always, psychological. This article outlines the main reasons why men go off sex.

Premature Ejaculation

Premature ejaculation is very common but can leave both parties frustrated. There are a number of very easy remedies for men to experiment with in order to help them move towards a healthy and fulfilling sex life.

Cannabis and fertility

Research shows that smoking cannabis affects the way the little white fellas swim. Men who are regular smokers of cannabis and are the most likely to experience infertility.

Anorgasmia

When men can't reach orgasm the term anorgasmia is applied. This article reviews the causes and the treatment options.

Cycling and impotence

The bicycle ride you love may actually be damaging to the nerves of your penis. According to a 1997 study done in Norway, up to 25% of all cyclists are affected by this transient problem.

Diabetes & Impotence

Over half of diabetic men over age 50 have problems with impotence. There is help available. Find out what causes diabetes-related impotence and the latest in treatment options.

Healthy Sperm

What do tight pants, smoking and hot tubs have in common? Answer: they all have a negative effective on sperm counts and sperm potency. Learn about how to keep sperm healthy.