Blood Pressure

You go to your doctor and he or she tells you your blood pressure is 130/80. What does that mean? Blood pressure results from two forces. One created by the heart as it pumps blood into the arteries through the circulatory system. The other is the force of the arteries as they resist the blood flow.

The Heart Health & Heart Knowledge Quiz

Test your knowledge of the heart and its health with this short (11 questions) quiz.

Cardiomyopathy

Cardiomyopathy is a disease of the heart muscle that affects more men than women. It's meaning comes from 'cardio' meaning heart, 'myo' meaning muscle and 'pathy' meaning disease. There are 3 types of Cardiomyopathy.

Supraventricular Tachycardia

Prime Minister Tony Blair has recently returned to work after corrective surgery for a heart condition known as supraventricular tachycardia. Cardiologists say that around 20 per cent of us will experience SVT at some point in our lives. Read more about SVT

Aortic Stenosis

The aorta is the large artery that originates in the left ventricle (lower chamber) of the heart. Aortic stenosis is the narrowing or obstruction of the heart's aortic valve, which prevents it from opening properly and blocks the flow of blood from the left ventricle to the aorta.

Heart Failure

Heart failure, also called congestive heart failure, is a disorder in which the heart loses its ability to pump blood efficiently.

Transient ischemic attack (TIA)

A transient ischemic attack is a "mini-stroke" caused by temporary disturbance of blood supply to an area of the brain, resulting in a sudden, brief decrease in brain function. (It lasts less than 24 hours, usually less than one hour) .

Cardiomyopathy

Cardiomyopathy is a weakening of the heart muscle or a change in heart muscle structure. It is often associated with inadequate heart pumping or other heart function abnormalities.

Palpitations

Palpitations are heartbeat sensations that feel like pounding or racing. You may simply have an unpleasant awareness of your own heartbeat. You may feel skipped or stopped beats.

Chest Pains

Many people with chest pain fear a heart attack. However, there are many possible causes of chest pain. Some causes are mildly inconvenient, while other causes are serious, even life-threatening.

American Heart Association

A really good site. Try typing 'men' in the search engine, sit back and watch a detailed resource unpack itself. Some good tools and top advice.

National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute

I've selected this link as it takes you straight to details of the famous Framingham Heart Study which sought to identify common factors in heart disease, including aspects of personality.

How to Keep your Heart Healthy

There's a lot of advice out there about what makes for a healthy heart. And, while ideas may come and go, the evidence consistently points to 7 important factors that helps keep hearts healthy.

Bare facts about heart attacks

A staggering 500,000 Americans die from heart attacks every year. Equally amazing, faced with overwhelming evidence about the causes of heart attacks, many men either choose not to listen or not to take action to prevent an early death. Check out the facts about heart attacks, how to recognize the signs and what to do if one comes your way.

Facts about cholesterol

Cholesterol comes in many forms and not all of them are bad for us. Get the facts on cholesterol and how it helps or hinders your health status.

Sex after a Heart Attack?

Is it wise or unsafe to have sex after a heart attack? These questions and more are answered in this feature.

Cardiology 101 - the basics

Great resource from Guide Richard N.Fogross M.D. Looks at how the heart works, common problems,controversies, symptom checker, articles and more

Heart Failure

Symptoms of heart failure and what you might expect in terms of treatment.

Big Belly

The beer belly has been found to be a better predictor of heart disease than general obsesity

Stress and the Heart

This outstanding Guide site by Leonard Holmes provides a wealth of excellent information.

Automatically Calculate Your Body Mass Index

By entering your weight and height this handy tool calculates your Body Mass Index and gives you feedback as to your health status.