Diseases and conditions of the penis

Diseases and conditions of the penis. Peyronie's disease, balanitis



When spots, lumps or rashes appear on the penis men often fear they have a sexually transmitted disease.

Treatment Prognosis for Peyronie's Disease

Peyronie's disease is a condition where the penis bends, usually upwards or downwards and is most apparent during an erection. This condition can be painful. Find out treatment options and therapy available for Peyronie's disease

The Penis Health Quiz

Take the penis health quiz and test your knowledge about some of the signs, symptoms and conditions to affect the penis.

Priapism

The medical condition Priapism gets its name from the Greek God of fertility Priapus. Priapism however, refers to a condition where men experience a sustained and painful erection for a number of hours. The condition often occurs without sexual arousal and if not treated can lead to permanent damage.

Phimosis and Paraphimosis

Phimosis, or preputial stenosis, is a term that usually means any condition where the foreskin of the penis cannot be retracted.

Peyronie's Disease

Curvature of the penis may occur for a variety of reasons. When hardening of the tissue is accompanied by pain the condition is likely to be diagnosed as Peyronies disease.

Balanitis

Men over the age of 40 are most prone to balanitis, an inflammation that affects the head of the penis and/or the foreskin.

Cancer of the Penis

Penile cancer, a very rare but aggressive form of cancer, is a malignant growth of cells in the tissue and/or external area of the penis.

Hypospadias

Around 1 in every 100 male child births results in hypospadias a male birth defect where the opening of the urethra is not located at the tip of the penis but opens part way up.

Jock itch

Jock itch occurs as a result of fungal infection of the groin area. This article reviews the causes, preventative measures and treatments.

Male Urinary Incontinence

The causes of male urinary incontinence may be many and varied. We review the causes the treatments and the options available to make life a bit more comfortable.

Testicular Cancer

Every year too many men die from a cancer that responds very well to treatment. Despite the number of deaths, testicular cancer is not very common. Even so, it's important to know the signs, symptoms and treatment options.