Diseases that mainly or exclusively affect men. In depth reports and shorter articles

Cirrhosis of the Liver

Cirrhosis of the liver is more common in men than women. There are a number of diseases that cause cirrhosis but the most common are hepatitis C and alcohol abuse. One of the problems with cirrhosis of the liver is that signs and symptoms may not appear until the disease is quite advanced.

Hernia

Information on the causes and types of hernia, how lifestyle changes can help and the other treatment options are available.

Testicular Problems

Although testicular cancer is fairly rare it pays to examine your testicles around once a month. Testicular self examination takes less than 5 minutes. Here's how it's done.

Inguinal Hernia Symptoms

Inguinal hernias are 10 times more likely to occur in men than in women, with over 500,000 related surgeries annually. Read about inguinal hernia symptoms.

Epilepsy

Men are more prone to epilepsy than women. Despite the fact than 1 in every 200 people will experience a seizure at some point in their life there remains both fear and misunderstanding about the causes and implications of epilepsy.

Osteoarthritis

Often thought of as a condition only affecting women, osteoarthritis is actually more common in men under the age of 45.

Athlete's Foot

Athlete's foot is an uncomfortable foot infection caused by a fungal growth. It can itch, lead to blistering and exposure of underlying tissues and cause both pain and discomfort.

Varicocele

You've fathered one child but for some reason your partner can't get pregnant again? You think you can't be infertile but you may possibly be one of the 80 per cent of men in the same situation who also have a varicocele, one of the most common causes of infertility.

Varicocele Treatment

Varioceles are one of the main reasons for infertility. Treatment is usually effective and is undertaken on a day-patient basis. Roughly half of all men who receive treatment go on to father children within a year. Read more about the treatment for varicocele.

Rectal Prolapse

Rectal prolapse is not so common in men but of the total recorded around 20 - 30 per cent occur in men.

Signs & Symptoms of HIV / AIDS

Some people experience signs and symptoms of HIV, Human immunodeficiency virus, as soon as they become infected, others do not.

Nose Bleeds

Nose bleeds are often a result of common events, often trauma but nose bleeds can be a warning of other problems.

Mouth Ulcers

Mouth ulcers can be symptoms of herpes infection, sex related infection (canker sores), inflammatory bowel disease , leukoplakia, gingivostomatitis, oral cancer, herpes simplex, oral thrush, and immune disorders.

Rectal Abscess

A rectal abscess is caused by a bacterial infection. As the body attempts to combat the infection bacteria, white corpuscles and body fluids collect. This forms pus.

Oral Thrush

Oral thrush is caused by yeast called candida albicans which is present with many other organisms in the mouth.

Mumps in Men

Mumps is more risky in older children and can, in rare cases cause long term and life threatening complications in men.

Physical Effects of Alcoholism

Men are twice as likely to be alcohol abusing or alcohol dependant.

Treatment and Control of Tuberculosis

Treatment for TB was only available from about 50 years ago. Active tuberculosis,if not treated, will infect on average, between 10 and 15 people every year.

Tuberculosis

Every second somewhere in the world someone gets infected with TB bacilli.

In Depth Reports

An A-Z of in-depth reports on various conditions and diseases.

Centers for Disease Control & Prevention

CDC serves as the national focus for developing and applying disease prevention and control, environmental health, and health promotion and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.

Empysema

Each year over 100,000 Americans die of emphysema. Read more about emphysema.

Hepatitis A

There are many forms of hepatitis, some infectious and some not. This article presents a review of hepatitis A, the least serious form of hepatitis, but one that can cause great discomfort and jaundice to the sufferer.

What is hepatitis?

Hundreds of millions of people are affected by hepatitis. Despite this, relatively few people even know what hepatitis is about, where it comes from and what its implications are. This brief article provides some basic info.

What is hepatitis C?

It is estimated that up to 35 thousand new cases of hepatitis occur each year. Many carriers are symptom free. So what exactly is hepatitis C and how do we get it?

Fulminant Hepatitis C

Fulminant hepatitis C is a rare form of hepatitis but one that carries an 85% mortality rate. Read more about fulminant hepatitis C in this brief but informative summary.

Gout

Are you one of the people that thought Gout died out centuries ago? Well, it's alive and well and busily causing grief to men everywhere. Nearly all cases of Gout affect men (90 per cent) and it hurts! This article provides a summary of causes and treatments.

Combat Stress

Once described as shell-shock the sufferer of combat stress was generally regarded as having low moral fiber. Treatment, if the individual could avoid the firing squad, was vertually non-existant. This article takes a quick look at the history of combat stress.

Routes of Infection

Most people get infections of some sort or another and there are four main routes for infections to enter the body

Prostatitis

It's common and it affects roughly half of all men at some time in their life. It accounts for as many as 25 per cent of all visits to the doctor for problems in the genital and urinary systems by the young and middle aged. So what is it? It's Prostatitis.

Pancreatitis

African Americans males aged between 35-64 are 10 times more at risk of developing pancreatitis than any other group. This serious disease affects around 80,000 people a year in America alone.

Hypospadias

This birth defect affects roughly one in ten boys where the opening of the urethra is not a the tip of the penis.

Bigorexia (muscular dysmophia)

The quest for physical perfection is taking its toll on thousands of men. Bigorexia is sometimes called reverse anorexia and is just as difficult a challenge for men

Hepatitis

All about hepatitis including its history, the various types, how transmission occurs, signs, symptoms and diagnostic practices

Traumatic Brain Injury

Men are three times more than women to likely to suffer traumatic brain injury. Work patterns, sport and violence are amongst the top reasons.

Hemophilia

An overview of this inherited blood condition affecting men in which blood is prevented from clotting.

Do You Have Diabetes

One of the risk factors for Type 2 diabetes is being over the age of 40. Roughly 50% of people with diabetes don't know they have it.

Kaposi's Sarcoma

Kaposi's sarcoma is a form of cancer that affects areas such as bone, fat, connective tissue and blood.

Drug Finder

Search for information on drugs, drug interactions and even a drug identifier based on its markings, shape or color.