Spinal Cord Injury in Men

Over 70 percent of spinal cord injuries occur in men. This, in part, is because men engage in more risky activities than women. Spinal cord injury (SPI) is a devastating condition that can leave a man partially or totally paralyzed

Traumatic Brain Injury in Combat Troops

Traumatic brain injury in combat troops is often different and more complex to brain injuries that occur in civilian life. Sudden air pressure changes following a blast causes internal and external injury to the head producing concussions or contusions to the brain. Injuries may then be worsened by contaminated flying fragments. More damage occurs when a soldier is physically propelled through the air hitting his head against another hard surface.

Men Suffer More Acquired Brain Injury

Men are much more likely to suffer a traumatic brain injury than women. That is in part because males engage in more risky behavior than females.

Is there a third sex?

Not all children are born with a clear-cut gender. When ambiguity occurs the decision to assign gender has largely been determined by the size of the external genitalia. Now the debate has shifted towards individual rights and a question over whether we need to learn to accept the existence of a third sex.

Oral Thrush

Oral thrush is caused by yeast called candida albicans which is present with many other organisms in the mouth.

Why Do Men Have Nipples

Why do men have nipples? Darwinian natural selection says that nipples should have been factored out many centuries ago. Men's nipples have no real function after all. So what reason is there for men having nipples?

Man's Fertility Declines with Age

Most men realize the importance of women's age and their abilty to have a baby. But the research is increasingly indicating that the age of the man is important too. If you are putting off having a baby beacause of your partner's and your career or are reluctant to compromise a comfortable standard of living for longer you better think again. A Man's age does affects his fertility. It amy also increase the risk of miscarrage

Sneezing

There are a number of questions that come to mind when we think about sneezing. What causes it? Do men have bigger sneezes than women? Does your heart stop beating when you sneeze? Who has sneezed for the longest period of time?

How to Avoid Back Pain

11 tips on how to avoid back pain.

Mouth Ulcers

Mouth ulcers can be symptoms of herpes infection, sex related infection (canker sores), inflammatory bowel disease , leukoplakia, gingivostomatitis, oral cancer, herpes simplex, oral thrush, and immune disorders.

Ulcer Research Gets Nobel Prize

Barry Marshall and Robin Warren, two Australian scientists have been awarded the Nobel Prize for Medicine for their discovery that a bacteria can trigger stomach ulcers.

Nose Bleeds

Nose bleeds are often a result of common events, often trauma but nose bleeds can be a warning of other problems.

Kidney Stones

Most common in middle age, kidney stones are made up of hardened mineral deposits. The National Institute of Health says that 1 in every 10 people develop them.

Athlete's Foot

Athlete's foot is an uncomfortable foot infection caused by a fungal growth. It can itch, lead to blistering and exposure of underlying tissues and cause both pain and discomfort.

Eating Disorders in Men

Although eating disorders are commonly associated with women, gender distributions of anorexia show about 10 per cent of people with anorexia are men

National Institute for Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Dis

Geared more towards its central focus (research) although there are useful links in the 'health information' section for more general use.

Epilepsy

Men are more prone to epilepsy than women. Despite the fact than 1 in every 200 people will experience a seizure at some point in their life there remains both fear and misunderstanding about the causes and implications of epilepsy.

Gout

Are you one of the people that thought Gout died out centuries ago? Well, it's alive and well and busily causing grief to men everywhere. Nearly all cases of Gout affect men (90 per cent) and it hurts! Find out more about Gout.

Testicular Problems

Although testicular cancer is fairly rare it pays to examine your testicles around once a month. Testicular self examination takes less than 5 minutes. Here's how it's done.

Circumcision

Male circumcisions in the United States occur at a rate of over 3,000 a day. The reasons for circumcision vary greatly but as with all surgical interventions there may be complications. Many men are unaffected by circumcision yet for others the complications aren't just physical, they may also be sexual and psychological. So, is circumcision now a human rights issue?

Jock itch

Jock itch is a common irritant affecting the groin area. This article looks at the causes and the cures.

Testicular Pain

Testicular pain may occur for a variety of reasons. This short feature covers the main causes.