Men's genital and sexual issues that may cause embarrassment

Men's genital and sexual issues that may cause embarrassment and concern.

Frequently Asked Questions About Vasectomy

Frequently Asked Questions About Vasectomy. Lots of information about having a vasectomy. From how the vasectomy operation is performed to complications following vasectomy. Is a vasectomy painful?, How soon after a vasectomy can I go back to work? and many more

Will I be in pain following a vasectomy ?

Will I be in pain following a vasectomy ?

Will I need to take time off work following my vasectomy?

Will I need to take time off work following my vasectomy?

How soon can I have sex after a vasectomy operation?

How soon can I have sex after a vasectomy operation? How and when is the semen analysis done following my vasectomy

Can I drive home immediately after the operation?

Can I drive home immediately after the vasectomy operation?

What are the surgical complications and side effects following a vasectomy?

Vasectomy operation can cause surgical complications and side effects and Surgical Complications. What are the surgical complications and side effects following a vasectomy?

How is a vasectomy operation performed?

Vasectomy operation.You are thinking of having a vasectomy. What happens during a vasectomy. How is a vasectomy operation performed?

How long does a vasectomy operation take?

How long does an vasectomy operation take?

Circumcision Operation Explained

Male circumcisions in the United States occur at a rate of over 3,000 a day. The reasons for circumcision vary greatly. In this article we look at the circumision operation, the surgical proceedure itself.

Circumcision Complications

Up to 10 percent of males experience complications after circumcision.

Priapism

The medical condition Priapism gets its name from the Greek God of fertility Priapus. Priapism however, refers to a condition where men experience a sustained and painful erection for a number of hours. The condition often occurs without sexual arousal and if not treated can lead to permanent damage.

Testicular Pain

Testicular pain may occur for a variety of reasons. This short feature covers the main causes.

Penis size

It exercises many men's minds for far too long. How do you stack up against other men? This article puts the penis into perspective.

Genital Problems in Men

A useful flow chart to help men with concerns about their genital area track the symptoms, diagnosis and self-care options.

Anorgasmia

Anorgasmia, or orgasmic dysfunction, refers to an inability to reach orgasm during sex. Millions of men are affected and mainly by performance anxiety.