Prostate Screening Test

Test whether you have any of the signs and symptoms associated with an enlarged prostate with this 10 question screening test,

The Prostate Quiz

Are you prostate aware? Test your knowledge and maybe learn a couple of things along the way.

The Prostate Examination

The Prostate Examination. What happens to you during a prostate examination and what the doctor is looking for

Collagen Injection for Prostate Problems

Research carried out at the University of Texas Houston Health Science Center has found that injections of collagen into the urinary muscles (the sphincter) can help men who have incontinence problems following treatment for some prostate conditions

Food Wrap Linked to Prostate Cancer

New research shows that a common ingredient of bottles, food wrappings and can linings may be partly responsible for the rise in prostate cancer

Promiscuity & prostate cancer

Young men who are sexually active with more than one person face an increased risk of prostate cancer in later life.

Ultrasound Treatment for Prostate Cancer

A new treatment for prostate cancer has arrived in the form of ultrasound.

Prostate Test Worthless

As a result of a now written-off screening test for prostate cancer, thousands of men are left wondering if their surgery and resulting impotence was the result of a false positive.

Prostate Newsletter Course

A structured way of learning about the prostate, prostate conditions, cancer and treaments via a daily email to your inbox. This short course just lasts a week.

Prostate Screening needs Improvement

Prostate cancers will kill many thousands of men this year. Having a prostate cancer screening test is no guarantee that the disease will be caught in time. This is leading to calls for better screening to reduce the already high mortality rates.

Regular ejaculation helps prevent prostate cancer

Good news for male emissions! Reduced risk of prostate cancer has been linked to regular ejaculation.

Prostate Cancer

As men live longer prostate cancer is becoming a more pronounced and unwelcome visitor. In the UK it now tops the table as the most commonly diagnosed tumor and in the USA the situation isn't far behind. Read more about the risk factors, signs and symptoms of prostate cancer.

Prostatitis

It's common, it affects roughly half of all men at some time in their life and it accounts for as many as 25 per cent of all visits to the doctor for problems in the genital and urinary systems by the young and middle aged. So what is it? It's Prostatitis.

Treatment Options for Prostate Enlargement

The type of prostate enlargement treatment that's best for you depends on the severity of signs and symptoms. A variety of treatment options are available.

Prostate Enlargement

Enlargement of the prostate gland is something over half of all men over 50 and eighty per cent of men over 80 can look forward to. We review the signs and symptoms of enlarged prostate and point to when treatment is necessary.

What the Prostate Gland is For

We've all got a prostate gland - but what does it do? Find out here.

Green tea

Green tea may have a positive influence on prostate cancer.