May is Mental Health Awareness Month!   More and more research is coming out that demonstrates how important our relationships are with others for us to achieve maximum mental health. In honor of mental health month this May, strive for better relationships with others this May to improve your overall mental wellness.

Truly being in touch with yourself and knowing what's important to you is crucial in order to live your best life. If that requires a little time out and putting your own needs before others, some may consider that to be selfish. If that's the case, I'm all for selfishness, and wrote a piece on the importance of selfishness. Once you're in touch with your needs and desires, you'll be better able to express them to others, and will enjoy more authentic and meaningful relationships as a result. Just don't be a jerk while taking time out for yourself, and then selfishness may not be such a dirty word. Related to the importance of being selfish, I share a little bit about my experience as a couples therapist on three common mistakes that so many people in relationships make. While these mistakes may be innocent in nature, they can have devastating effects on your relationship and keep you stuck in common patterns of disconnect. My advice of the day for a better life is therefore to get more selfish, express your truth to the important people around you, and stop making these 3 common mistakes in your relationship. Let me know your thoughts and how being a little more selfish works for you!

Celebrated by the Autism Society since the 1970s to spread awareness about autism and now autism spectrum disorders (ASD), April is National Autism Awareness Month. Have you wondered about what early warning signs for autism are? Researchers are finding that screenings can be done earlier than previously believed, and a simple questionnaire can help identify children at-risk for autism as early as at their first birthday. This article discusses 7 red flags of autism and provides information about this easy questionnaire as well. The good news is that earlier screening leads to earlier intervention. Because children's brains are so malleable when they are young, the earlier that services are introduced in a child's life, the better. Early intervention services for children with ASD can be very helpful and can reduce the negative outcomes that ASD has on someone's life. Read more about early intervention services by clicking here. Other great resources for ASD include Autism Speaks and the Autism Society.

As a psychologist trained in Emotionally Focused Therapy for couples, I happen to see couples all of the time who are struggling with one of the common problematic relationship patterns in which one partner tends to shut down and withdraw. I also see a lot of women in my practice who complain that their partners are shut down, and they start the process of psychotherapy not knowing how to reach them. I imagine there are many folks out there who are not in psychotherapy, but who also experience the frustration of having a partner who withdraws. For those people struggling in their relationships, I am happy to share a quick article with some tips on how to get your partner to open up. Of course, no cookie cutter recipe will work for everyone, but I'm hopeful that this article may help those of you struggling with a shut down partner look at your relationship in a new way. I'd love to hear your feedback if you have any.