Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and autism are mental health disorders diagnosed in childhood that are characterized by problems with communication, difficulties in social interaction, and repetitive behaviors. Research speaks to the importance of early screening for these disorders so that behavioral therapy can be introduced as part of an early intervention for children who may display symptoms of autism.

Early intervention services are available for children from the ages of birth to three years old who have developmental delays or disabilities, such as ASD. The focus of early intervention is to help babies and toddlers with delays or disabilities learn the basic skills that children learn in the first few years of life.

Early intervention focuses on several key areas of a child's development, which include the following:

If a child is found to have a delay or disability in any of the previous areas mentioned, he or she is eligible for a number of early intervention services deemed appropriate. These services might include but are not limited to: speech and language services; family counseling; nursing and/or nutrition services; occupational therapy; physical therapy; and psychological services.

Research has demonstrated that early intervention can be effective to improve Intelligence Quotient (IQ), social interaction and language ability, all of which are key areas of need for children with ASD. Children's brains are exceptionally impressionable in the first few years of life. By starting to work with kids who are affected by ASD and other types of developmental disabilities in their first few months or years of life, it is possible to limit the negative affects of ASD.

How does one qualify for early intervention?

Children qualify for early intervention who are diagnosed with developmental delays or disabilities, such as ASD. Parents who are concerned about the possibility that their children might have a delay or disability should speak with their pediatricians. It is also possible to obtain an evaluation, free of charge, from your community's early intervention program.

To find out about your community's early intervention program, ask your pediatrician for a referral to the local early intervention system, or reach out to the department of pediatrics in a hospital nearby and ask how to find out about early intervention services in your area.

How much does early intervention cost?

The cost of early intervention to you, if any, is determined by your state's policies. Early intervention for qualified children is often paid for by federal and state resources. The service coordinator of your community's early intervention program will be able to provide a system of payment in writing that explains how early intervention services will be covered. Early intervention services are mandated by the federal Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, but the extent to which they are covered is determined by your state.

The bottom line is that early intervention services can be extremely helpful, and should be started as soon as possible in a child's life who is affected by autism and ASD.

Dawson G, Rogers S, Muson J, Smith M, Winter J, Greenson J, Donaldson A & Varley J. Randomized, Controlled Trial of an Intervention for Toddlers With Autism: The Early Start Denver Model. Pediatrics, Nov. 2009 DOI: 10.1542/peds.2009-0958