Calling someone "selfish" is generally an insult, but in some cases, a healthy dose of selfishness is necessary in order to live your best life. At the far end on a spectrum of selfishness is a self-centered person who lives life with little to regard for no one other than himself or herself. This is not the kind of selfishness I am referring to, but the kind that involves taking care of one's self first. This article will describe three components to living a more healthfully selfish life, which include being clear on who you are, knowing your needs and desires, and living a life that is unapologetic in getting those needs met. This healthy dose of selfishness is not only good for you, but those around you as well.

Take time out for yourself to really stay connected to your experience. In this busy world, people are all too often putting tasks and others before them, and are losing themselves in the process. This kind of self abandonment can have all kinds of negative consequences. Problematic patterns in relationships emerge, mental health problems like depression and anxiety can arise, and people can even become at a greater risk for illness. Remember what they say on an airplane in the case of emergency: Put your oxygen mask on before taking care of a child or someone else who needs your help. You need to know yourself and stay connected to yourself because no one else can do that.

You can take action on this simply by making more time for yourself and doing activities that help you connect more to yourself. Meditation, journal writing or light exercise are a few of many ways that you can practice to take time out for yourself.

Know your needs and desires

What do you need to feel happy, fulfilled and satisfied in your life? Only you can answer these questions. Many relationships go sour because people are not in touch with their needs, do not communicate them to their partners, and unsurprisigly do not get them met as a result. Something remains missing until it becomes obvious that something is wrong in the relationship, and by that point, it feels too late for many couples to even be open to getting help such as couples therapy.

It makes sense why so many people are out of touch with their needs because culturally, at least in the United States, many people are given the message that their needs are too much. They are called "too needy," for example, especially when it comes to relationships. New research on love is demonstrating more and more that we all have needs for safe emotional connections. Nothing about desiring stronger emotional connections is "too needy," but it is actually human and has a lot to do with why we exist as a species. Knowing your needs is crucial in other areas of your life as well. At work, for example, be honest about what factors are really important for you in a job or career, and seek out an opportunity that offers such factors or create one.

When you are taking time out for yourself, really check in with yourself to assess what is working in your life and what needs up-leveling in order to be more attuned with your needs and desires. Again, only you have the answers here, and it is of the utmost importance to get them.

Be unapologetic in expressing your needs and getting them met

Once you have really connected to yourself and gotten clear on your needs and desires, go after them like your life depends on it, because in some ways, it does. The only way to do this is by being honest with yourself and others around you. Far too often people do not get what they need or desire simply because they do not ask. Do not make this mistake, but rather, be unapologetic about what your needs are and getting them met. No one else is going to do it for you.

It is up to you and you alone to live your best life.