Depression is one of the most common mental health problems. It appears that there are biological depressions and situational depressions. Often both factors are involved. Dysthymia refers to a milder depression than "major depression" or "major affective disorder."

What is Depression?

Information about depression and manic depression, including a list of symptoms.

How to get Help If You're Depressed

Getting less depressed takes time. There are steps that you can take that will eventually pay off.

Causes of Depression

Information about the different causes of depression and research into how depression develops.

Sadness is not Depression

Sadness is an emotion that we all feel at times. It's not the same as depression. Here are some ways to tell the difference.

SSRI Antidepressants Save Lives

The SSRI class of antidepressants has been under attack in the past few years, since some studies suggested that these drugs can increase the risk of suicide in young people. A July 2006 study has found that suicide rates in the U.S. have decreased as the rate of fluoxetine (Prozac) prescriptions has increased.

Antidepressant Medications

Antidepressant medications are often the first treatment prescribed for depression. Newer medications have fewer side effects than older ones.

How does Exercise Improve Mental Health?

We know that exercise has positive effects on the brain. Researchers at Duke University demonstrated several years ago that exercise can be an effective antidepressant. Other research has shown that exercise can improve the brain functioning of the elderly, and may even protect against dementia. How does exercise improve mental health?

Treating Mothers' Depression Helps Kids' Mental Health

Effectively treating a mother's depression decreases the likelihood of her children having mental disorders within the same time period. Mothers who remain depressed increase the risk of her children having these disorders.

Sexual Dysfunction Results from Anti-depressant Drugs

All but two of the newer anti-depressant drugs cause significant sexual dysfunction, according to results of a study conducted by the associate professor and vice chairman, Department of Psychiatric Medicine, University Virginia Health System and a primary care physician in New Baltimore, Mich.

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation

Powerful electromagnets are being used to stimulate areas of the brain non-invasively. Scientists are studying the effects of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) on severe depression and other mental disorders.

Women Inherit Depression more often than Men

Genetic factors play a somewhat larger role in depression for women than for men.

People Who Choose Their Depression Treatment Do Better

Patients who chose their own treatment for depression had better outcomes than patients whose treatment was determined by their physicians alone, a new study of veterans has found.

Exercise Alone may Reduce Symptoms of Depression

The first study to look at exercise alone in treating mild to moderate depression showed depressive symptoms were reduced almost 50 percent in adults who participated in 30-minute aerobic exercise sessions three to five times a week, according to researchers.

Cymbalta for the Treatment of Depression and Pain

The dual serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor Cymbalta is giving doctors and patients a new option for treating depression and neuropathic pain.

Cymbalta gets Mixed Reception

Eli Lilly hopes that it has found a money-maker in its new antidepressant Cymbalta; since It's flagship antidepressant Prozac is now available in a cheaper generic version. In February 2004 a college student taking part in a study of Cymbalta hanged herself in a company research facility. Lilly assures us that there's no evidence that Cymbalta was to blame.

Teens with Depression Show Improvement When Medication, Therapy Combined

Teenagers suffering from depression improved more with a combination of an antidepressant and cognitive-behavior therapy than they did when treated with either separately, a multicenter study.

Exercise is an Effective Antidepressant

A Duke University study demonstrated that regular exercise is as effective as antidepressant medications for patients with major depression.

Income Influences Mothers' Depressive Symptoms

New research findings verify that income changes directly affect depressive symptoms in women during the first three years after childbirth.

Depression Tied to Hypertension by Family History

Higher blood pressure is linked to depression, but only in people with a family history of hypertension, a new study finds. People whose parents did not have high blood pressure did not show the same association.

Depression & Fatigue Fuel Each Other

Depression and fatigue reinforce each other in a vicious cycle, say European researchers.

Suicide Rates Overstated in People with Depression

Mayo Clinic debunks the commonly held notion that about 15 percent of people diagnosed with depression will commit suicide.

Should Children Take Antidepressants?

A study of major depressive disorder in children and teens that showed that sertraline is slightly more effective than placebo. It also had more side effects. This really is an important study. Kids are already taking Zoloft, and we need to understand the implications of this. Some of the results are troubling, though.

Maybe It's Not Depression

There are other disorders that can cause symptoms similar to depression. Here are some ways to tell what's what.

Major Depression and Manic-Depression - Any difference?

Information on the differences between bipolar disorder and major depression.

Exercise is an Effective Antidepressant

September 2000 study finds that exercise also keeps depression from returning.

How to Snap out of Depression

You can't really "snap out of it" - but here are a few small steps you can take

Atypical antidepressants

Information about some of the newer 'atypical' antidepressants - Buspar buspirone Desyrel trazodone Effexor venlafaxine Remeron mirtazapine Serzone nefazodone Wellbutrin bupropion.

Depression: Why Don't I Respond to Medications?

Depression can be caused by many clinical entities. Sometimes, knowing the right diagnosis is a challenge. Medical disorders, medications such as beta-blockers and benzodiazepines (e.g. clonazepam), and various psychiatric disorders can cause depression and they all require different treatment.

Some Thoughts about Depression

Depression can manifest itself in different ways. Here are some of them, and some ideas on how to feel better.

SAMe is Effective for Depression

Several recent studies have added to a body of evidence suggesting that the substance SAMe (S-Adenosyl-L-Methionine) is an effective antidepressant. In the U.S. SAMe is available over-the-counter and in health food stores.

What to Do with Those Antidepressant Side Effects?

Antidepressant side effects are real and negatively affect patient's compliance. Many patients consider stopping the medication even at the risk of relapse because of distressing side effects. How do you deal with some of the common antidepressant side effects?

Cognitive Therapy for Depression and Anxiety

Find out more about these effective techniques.

What if it's not Depression?

Chronic fatigue, thyroid problems & autoimmune disorders can mimic depression.

Wing of Madness - A Depression Guide

Deborah Deren has created a graphically beautiful site about depression. The clean, soothing look of the site is accented by classic paintings. It emphasizes the biological basis for depression, but acknowledges the role of psychotherapy as well.

What about St. John's Wort?

St. John's wort is the first herb to reach cult status as a psychiatric medication. Recent studies suggest that it helps mild-to-moderate depression, but that it can interact with other drugs.

Treat Your Depression over the Phone

COPE is a program that treats depression with toll-free telephone calls and written literature. Early research suggests that it works as well as more traditional treatments for mild-to-moderate depression.

Real Men, Real Depression

A collection of resources from the National Institute of Mental Health with practical information on depression in men.

It's That Time of Year - Seasonal Depression

Seasonal Affective Disorder kicks in when the days get short.

Memory is Biased Toward Happiness

Researchers reviewing studies on autobiographical memory and happiness have found that human memory is biased toward happiness and that mild depression can disrupt this bias for good over bad.

Prozac and PMS - What's in a Name?

Why is Lilly calling Prozac 'Sarafem' when marketing it to women with PMS?

Some Ideas about Depression

Depression can manifest itself in different ways.  Here are some of them, and some ideas on how to feel better.

Depressed Online?

Maybe the Internet doesn't really cause loneliness and depression. I don't think that it does.

Depression in Children

Information on childhood depression from William T. Goldman, M.D. at keepingkidshealthy.com.

RemedyFind - Depression

Users give a numerical rating to remedies that they have tried as a way of sharing their personal health experiences with others.

Nerve Stimulator Offers New Hope for Depression

A pacemaker-like device, known as the Vagus Nerve Stimulator, currently used to treat epilepsy is being evaluated as a possible new treatment for depression.

A look at Celexa - a new SSRI

Research studies from the American Psychiatric Association about this antidepressant.

Depression at About

Nancy Schimelpfening provides even more on depression at her About site.

Andrew's Depression Page

presents information about depression and links to other sites. One of the main attractions is Voices of Depression, a collection of writings by people suffering from depression.

Depression Frequently Asked Questions

is complied from the usenet newsgroup alt.support.depression. There's lots of good information about depression here.

Depression Central

is a site developed by Ivan Goldberg, M.D., which focuses on the pharmacology of depression and related disorders. This site is comprehensive, and it includes a broad range of depression resources.

FyrenIyce - The Australian Bipolar Website

The home of the FyrenIyce Bipolar Support Group. This site contains useful original information.

Hypercium.com

A site promoting the use of St. John's Wort for the treatment of depression.   It includes the full text of two books: How to Heal Depression and Hypericum & Depression.

Juliet's Biploar Page

More than a page, it's a site created by someone with Bipolar Disorder which includes original poetry. The Word Salad section gives others a chance to share creative material.

Pendulum Resources

focuses primarily on bipolar disorder (manic-depression). The site contains a wealth of information presented in a professional manner with fast classy graphics. It links to the Pendulum mailing list which covers the same material.

Secret Shame

is another resource dealing with self-injury. Take care here, since there are some detailed descriptions of methods of self-injury.

Facts about Electroconvulsive Therapy

A site about Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) written by a survivor of such therapy.   It conveys some good information in a light-hearted way.

Mandy's Homepage

A consumer-created site from the U.K. that is focused primarily on depression.

Undoing Depression

A site with original material by Richard O'Connor, Ph.D., along with access to the book by the same name.

Walkers in Darkness

is an email support list for people with depression.  It is also a Web site with live chats every evening and excellent information on psychotropic medications.

Yellow Brick Road

A site created by Holly who has bipolar disorder.  Read first-person descriptions of this disorder, but look out for the Geocities pop-up ads.

Diabetes and Depression

An interesting point-of-view about the link between diabetes and depression.