Dr. Dan Siegal is a pioneer in the field of mental health. He is known for his work on interpersonal neurobiology and is an expert on mindfulness. He completed his medical degree at Harvard University and post-graduate studies at UCLA to become a psychiatrist, with training in child, adolescent and adult psychiatry. He is a world renown author and educator, having lectured for His Holiness the Dalia Lama, Pope John Paul II, and the King of Thailand. This article discusses his work on interpersonal neurobiology.

Interpersonal neurobiology is essentially an interdisciplinary field which brings together many areas in science including but not limited to anthropology, biology, linguistics, mathematics, physics and psychology to determine common findings about the human experience from different perspectives. Interpersonal neurobiology ultimately has brought such fields together to create a definition of the human mind and what the mind needs for maximum health.

How does Dr. Dan Siegal define the mind using interpersonal neurobiology?

In the early 1990s, Dan Siegal found that despite being among psychiatrists and other professionals in mental health, no one really had a definition of mental health or even the mind. He came to define the mind by highlighting its relational underpinnings. In other words, we are who we are as we are in relation to one another. He posits that the mind is a relational process that essentially regulates the flow of energy, hence, the "interpersonal" of interpersonal neurobiology. In his proclaimed audio book, The Neurobiology of We, Siegal discusses how identity is not contained so much within an individual, but between individuals.

At its core, interpersonal neurobiology holds that we are ultimately who we are because of our relationships. Further, because the mind is defined as a relational process that regulates energy flow, our brains are constantly rewiring themselves. All relationships change the brain, particularly the most intimate ones, for example, with our primary care givers or romantic partners. While it was once thought that our early experiences defined who we are, interpersonal neurobiology holds that our brains are constantly being reshaped by new relationships.

Proving this theory correct is an experiment that demonstrates how a a short-term dose of effective couples therapy, namely Emotionally Focused Therapy, can change the way the brain responds to fear and threat. This is but one of many neuroimaging studies that demonstrate how the brain can change over time based on relationships and new experiences.

We are more social than we realize. Social pain is coded similarly in the brain as physical pain: Both forms of pain signal danger to our survival. Interpersonal neurobiology adds to the growing body of research that demonstrates just how social of animals we are.

Because interpersonal neurobiology stresses the importance of healthy relationships for a healthy mind, take good care of your connections with others.

Interpersonal neurobiology offers great hope to all trauma survivors, psychotherapists, psychiatrists and their patients. Interpersonal neurobiology explores how the brain grows and changes based on relationships. Positive relationships beget positive changes, which yields healing for those who have suffered from trauma.

To read more from Dr. Dan Siegal

Dan Siegal is a prolific author. His most famous books include: The Developing Mind: How Relationships and the Brain Interact to Define Who We Are; Parenting From The Inside out; and Mindsight. He speaks at conferences internationally. You can learn more about Dr. Dan Siegal and his cutting edge work at http://www.drdansiegal.com.