Information about different mental disorders. Diagnosis is not always exact, and some of these disorders overlap. Most of the content is in the "More Categories" folders in the right-hand column.

Life With a Mental Health Concern

Living with a mental health condition means not only taking efforts to manage it, but coping with the ways in which it can affect your life and those in it. If you're faced with a mental health concern, or if you are the loved one of someone who is, there are things you can do to help make way for a better life.

Do I have a Mental Disorder?

Most of us wonder this at sometime in our life. We all have moods that swing at times, and we all worry. Here are some ways to know if it's time to seek help

What You Need to Know About Eating Disorders

An overview of what you need to know about eating disorders, including their general characteristics, the main types, who is at risk, and other health effects.

The Obsessive-Compulsive Disorders

There are several disorders that go by this label.  Learn how they differ.

Anxiety Disorders - An Overview

In-depth information about anxiety disorders, including generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, phobias, PTSD, and more.

Borderline Personality Disorder

Information about a controversial diagnosis and a discussion of how to diagnose more accurately.

Mental Disorders Common Throughout the World

The World Health Organization has found mental disorders to be common throughout the world. Reallocating treatment resources could provide needed treatment in developed and developing countries.

Offending by Psychiatric Patients Is Rare

Released psychiatric patients are not likely to commit criminal acts after discharge, according to a UK study.

Schizophrenia - It's Not What You Think

Schizophrenia has nothing to do with split personality. It is a serious treatable mental disorder.

Autism Spectrum Disorders (Pervasive Developmental Disorders)

Autism, Asperger's Syndrome, and similar developmental disorders are still poorly understood. Research is finding treatments that help parents and children manage these disorders, and we know more about what happens when these children grow up.

Are All Dementias Alzheimer's?

By Michael G. Rayel, MD - I'm surprised when some patients and caregivers confuse dementia and Alzheimer's as one and the same. Each time a family member is suffering from memory loss, the conclusion is always Alzheimer's. Is it reasonable to label all dementias as Alzheimer's?

Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

Information about PTSD and the effects of trauma.

Is Road Rage a Mental Disorder?

Road Rage is a popular topic. Why do we get so angry on the highway and how can we stay safe?

Schizoaffective Disorder

What do you get when you cross schizophrenia with bipolar disorder? Schizoaffective disorder. It's actually not quite that simple, but that's a good way to think of this disorder.

Dissociative Disorders

A dissociative disorder occurs when traumatic material is split-off or dissociated from the remainder of consciousness.

Self-Injury

Self-Injury (self-mutilation) is not always part of suicidal thinking. Read about this problem that is fairly common amoung adolescents.

Female Victims of Domestic Violence More Likely to Self Harm

Women who deliberately self harm are 75 times more likely to report physical and/or verbal abuse by a partner than women who do not harm themselves, indicates research.

Mentally Ill Smoke.... A Lot

Researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health have discovered that Americans with mental illness are nearly twice as likely to smoke cigarettes as people with no mental illness.

Mental Illness Awareness

What is it about Mental Illness that we're supposed to be aware of?

The Rise of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disodrer

New York Times article discusses the rise of ADHD in direct parallel with the marketing of this disorder and pharmaceutical sales.

Mental illness and stigma

Mental illness continues to have a great deal of stigma associated with it despite advances in psychiatry.

7 Red Flags of Autism

This article offers seven signs of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and offers some resources for parents concerned about ASD.



This article provides some advice on how to deal with a loved one who may be suicidal.

Does someone who cuts herself want to die?

This article discusses information about cutting and other self-injurious behaviors if you are concerned about someone who may be hurting herself.