Raising a family is not easy in today's world.  These family resources include information on parenting, alcoholic families, adolescent mental health, and drug education.

How to Help Struggling Students go from Sinking to Soaring

Parenting or teaching a child with ADD or learning difficulties can be a challenge. Here are some tips to assist you in providing the best possible environment for your child to experience success both at home and at school.

Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) and Learning "Disabilities"

Experts estimate that between 4-10% of our youth are now diagnosed as having Attention Deficit Disorder. It can be frustrating and discouraging to deal with symptoms of ADD. Here's the great news: there is nothing "wrong" with your child or with you as the parent; there is nothing that needs to be "fixed".

Children and Learning

When children feel that they don't learn well, it often affects their self-esteem significantly. As a result, many young people will not only experience problems around learning, but also self-esteem issues, emotional and behavioral problems, social skills problems, anxiety, depression, or family issues.

Helping a Son or Daughter in College

The last year of high school can be rough on parents. Your son or daughter usually feels ready to be an independent adult, but they often don't act with the same maturity. If your son or daughter is ready to start college (or currently in college) you have a opportunity to help him or her become an adult. It can be a little tricky. Here are some tips that may help.

Video Game Violence Research Yields Mixed Results

2005 research confirms that violent video games can increase aggressive behavior in children and adolescents in the short- and long-term. Other recent research found that a particular violent video game, "Asheron's Call 2" did not increase violence in people who played it regularly. Why such varied findings?

Should Children Take Antidepressants?

A study found sertraline (Zoloft) to be somewhat more effective than placebo for children and teenagers - but that's not the whole story.

Choosing Our Battles

Learning to choose our battles is one of the the most important lessons in life. It's a lesson that most of us learn as we grow older. If we can learn it earlier we will probably have a better life.

Family Rituals & Routines Improve Health

A review of 32 studies affirms that family routines (such as bedtime, chores, and dinner time) and family rituals (such as birthdays, Christmas celebrations, and family reunions) are associated with marital satisfaction, adolescents' sense of personal identity, academic achievement, children's health, and stronger family relationships.

Helping a Son or Daughter in College

If your son or daughter is ready to start college (or currently in college) you have an opportunity to help him or her become an adult. It can be a little tricky. Here are some tips that may help.

What to Tell Your Kids About Michael Jackson

David Finkelhor, director of the Crimes against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire, has compiled information about how to talk with children about Michael Jackson.

Preventing Domestic Violence

Domestic violence is a complex problem and simple answers do not exist. Here's a simple technique that can sometimes help.

Adolescents Manipulate Parents Following Divorce, Separation

Adolescents learn to manipulate their parents following a divorce or separation, gaining more control of their situation in a two-household family, according to a 2004 study.

Whoever wants Less of a Relationship has More Power

Most of us don't like to think about "power" when we think about relationships. Intimate relationships involve sharing and cooperation - but it takes two to share and cooperate. What if one partner doesn't want to? Suddenly that person has more power.

Violent Video Games Produce Violent Behavior

Violent video games such as Doom can increase aggression in the real world.

Most Abuse Survivors Don't Molest Others

The "cycle of abuse" appears to be particularly true for males, but a recent study suggests that many child abuse survivors will not grow up to become abusers themselves.

Married Workers Fare Better at Shift Work than Singles

Maybe working shifts isn't as tough on marriages as many believe. A study conducted by Xavier University researchers found that married workers, including those with children, who work shifts had higher levels of life and job satisfaction than their unmarried co-workers.

Bullying Prevention Tips

U.S. Government resources with information about bullying and methods for communicating with children about the climate of fear created by bullying.

Teen Sexual Abstinence Pledges Don't Work

Adolescent sexual abstinence pledges are popular in some circles in the United States. A Columbia University study suggests that such pledges are rarely translated into behavior. 88% of the teens who had pledged abstinence actually had sex before they were married.

Autism Spectrum Disorders (Pervasive Developmental Disorders)

Autism, Asperger's Syndrome, and similar developmental disorders are still poorly understood. Research is finding treatments that help parents and children manage these disorders, and we know more about what happens when these children grow up.

Teen Advice

Lots of excellent resources for teenagers and families of teenegers.

Ten Tips for Coping with Holiday Stress

We all look forward to the holidays and hope that they will be a time of happiness, friendliness, fellowship, and harmony. Yet often our anticipation and excitement turns into feelings of depression and/or family disharmony.

Children Spend More Time Playing Video Games than Watching TV

Boys spend twice as much time playing video games as girls, but the gap is expected to close as more games are designed for girls with their preferences in mind, an April 2004 survey has found.

Talking to your Kids about Drinking Helps

A study conducted by Psychologist Rob Turrisi, Ph.D., of Boise State University found that simple parent and teen conversations about the problems of alcohol abuse helped prevent binge-drinking in college freshmen.

Mood Disorders Affect One in Nine Young American Adults

One in nine young American adults may suffer from common mood disorders during their lives, according to results from a large, nationally representative survey.

Are Married People Happier than Unmarried People?

In a large longitudinal study that sheds new light on the association between marital status and happiness, researchers have found that people get a boost in life satisfaction from marriage.

Kids Need Sense of Structure to Feel Safe at School

Kids feel unsafe at school when they sense that schoolmates can get away with anything, say two researchers.

Teen Gambling and Substance Abuse

A Florida study finds that some gambling is common among teens.

Babies' Attachment to Parents Affected by Overnights

Babies who spend overnights in the separate residences of each parent after divorce or separation have difficulty establishing secure attachments to their parents.

Teenage Sex and Risky Behavior Linked

Teenage girls who have sex with more than one partner in a short period of time are more likely to engage in other risky behaviors, such as fighting, binge drinking, smoking cigarettes, using cocaine or sniffing glue, according to a new study

Child Mental Health Costs Similar to Physical Health Costs

Children with behavioral disorders incur similar overall health care costs to children with physical disorders, according to a recent study. Among pediatric behavioral disorders, anxiety and depression cost twice as much as disorders such as ADHD and conduct disorders.

Father's Absence Increases Daughter's Risk of Teen Pregnancy

Fathers who leave their families may increase their daughters' risk for early sexual activity and teenage pregnancy, suggest the results of long-term studies in the United States and in New Zealand.

Mom's Psychological Health Determines Whether Kids go to the Doctor

Children whose mothers are the most depressed, anxious and report high levels of psychosomatic symptoms are twice as likely to be taken to a doctor when they complain of a stomache ache than are children whose mothers report the least amount of such mental stress.

Father's Alcohol Abuse affects young Children

Scientists at the University at Buffalo's Research Institute on Addictions have demonstrated that alcohol abuse, depression and other problems in the father are related to children's development.

Heavy Video Game Use by Kids May slow Brain Development

Children playing Nintendo used only parts of the brain associated with vision and movement, while kids doing arithmetic had activity throughout the left and right hemispheres of the frontal lobe - areas of the brain associated with learning, memory, emotion, and impulse control.

Childhood Exposure to Media Violence Predicts Young Adult Aggression

Children's viewing of violent TV shows, their identification with aggressive same-sex TV characters, and their perceptions that TV violence is realistic are all linked to later aggression as young adults, for both males and females, according to a 15-year study.

Family Discipline, Religious Attendance Cut Child Violence

Aggressive 15 year olds who attended religious services, felt attached to their schools, or were exposed to good family management were much less likely to have engaged in violent behavior by the time they turned 18, according to a new multi-ethnic study of urban youth by researchers.

Ritalin improves Academics in Teens with ADHD

A 2001 study found that methylphenidate (Ritalin) improved daily academic performance and academic behavior of teenagers.