Find information on improving your own mental health here. Most of us don't suffer from a mental illness, but we can still become more mentally healthy.

Resilience

The ability to bounce back from adversity has been referred to as "resilience." It is important for good mental health.

Make Better Decisions

Good decisions are made using the conscious mind and the unconscious mind. Here's an approach to help you make better decisions.

Metaphors for Life

Is your life a battle or a journey? We all have life metaphors that shape how we live. What are yours?

What is Mental Health?

Mental health is more than the absence of mental illness. Even though many of us don't suffer from a diagnosable mental disorder, it is clear that some of us are mentally healthier than others.

Building an Internal Sense of Security

Childhood experiences make a difference in how secure we feel, but it's not too late.

Improve Your Mental Health

This newsletter course will focus on helping you improve your own mental health. It is not intended only for those with a mental disorder, although it may help you if you have been diagnosed. Most of us can improve our mental health and manage the stress in our lives.

Exuberance

Kay Redfield Jamison's latest book, Exuberance: The Passion for Life, is a groundbreaking book in the study of human emotions.

Coming to Our Senses - from Jon Kabat-Zinn

Jon Kabat-Zinn's book Coming to Our Senses expands on his earlier work to mindfully consider the present moment in the wider world around us.

Sadness is not Depression

Sadness is an emotion that we all feel at times. It's not the same as depression. Here are some ways to tell the difference.

Living in the Present Moment - Importance vs. Urgency

It is important to live in the present moment, and to understand the difference betwen importance and urgency.

What, Me Worry?

Anticipatory anxiety and negative fantasy can ruin life in the present.

Balance

One of the keys to good mental health is balance.

Managing your Anger

Anger is an emotion that we all experience. It's not bad, but it can cause problems. Here are some ways to manage it.

Seasonal Mental Health Issues

The winter season brings its own mental health issues. Shorter days and holidays create stress, and we have ways to help.

For Yourself : The Fulfillment of Female Sexuality

A sensitive and well-written book on female sexuality

Coping with 'Data Smog'

'Data Smog' and 'TechnoStress' have reduced our productivity and our sleep. Here are some ways to cope.

Letting Go

Letting go is difficult, simple, and essential.

Mindfulness Improves Quality of Life

Mounting evidence is showing that mindfulness can increase life enjoyment, expand the ability to cope with illness, and possibly improve physical and emotional health. Harvard Women's Health Watch takes a detailed look at how learning to focus the mind can be a healthful antidote to the stresses of everyday living.

Study looks at Effects of Laughter on Immune System

In a first-of-its-kind study focusing on ill children and adolescents with depressed immune systems, researchers at UCLA's Jonsson Cancer Center will try to determine if laughter can help reduce pain and prevent and treat diseases.

Extroverts Have Edge Balancing Work and Family

Extroverts experience the most positive connections between their work and family roles, according to a new study that looks at the role of personality in the work-family experience.

Are Highly Educated at Greater Risk for Mental Health Problems?

Highly educated workers seem to be at greater risk for poor mental health than the general U.S. population, a 2003study suggests.

Psychosocial Interventions Help Dementia Caregivers

When a group of caregivers was given "skills training" in problem solving, behavior management techniques, and other areas, they reported that they experienced reduced stress, felt more positive about their caregiving roles, and experienced increased satisfaction with leisure activities.

Dutch Research on Recovered Memories

An important 1998 Dutch study expanded our understanding of recovered memories.

Peaceful Schools Project Tackles Bullies

Ridding schools of bullies improves the learning environment. Research at the Menninger Clinic has developed methods to diminish the power of bullies.

Is Road Rage a Mental Disorder?

Road Rage is a popular topic. Why do we get so angry on the highway and how can we stay safe?

Building an Internal Sense of Security

In order to be effective adults we need an internal sense of security. Here are some of the ingredients.

Do Vacations Really Help?

A 2002 Gallop poll found that most Americans return tired from vacations. With the right planning your vacation can actually leave you feeling rested and recharged. Here are some suggestions.

Getting Together with Family

Wonderful times, or times straight from hell.  It depends on your family.

Far Less Alcohol Needed at Lunchtime to Impair Driving

Just one lunchtime drink could still be dangerous for drivers because of its impact on the natural afternoon dip in mental alertness.

7 Simple Ways to Survive and Thrive During the Holidays

Coping with the holidays

Can Music Help Us Be More Resilient?



How to achieve New Year's resolutions

Using the SMART system of achieving your New Year's Resolutions, you can accomplish your goals and will feel better by the end of the year as a result.

The Three Ingredients to a Happy Life

These three pursuits, as studied by Martin Seligman, can lead to a life of extreme happiness.

Love Sense

Summary of the book: Love Sense: The Revolutionary New Science of Love Relationships by Dr. Sue Johnson

5 Mental Skills of Winners

This article discusses five mental skills or attitudes of successful people who win.

Five Great Tips to Get Stuff Done

Marie Forleo interviews Dr. Edward Hallowell, ADHD expert, on how to get stuff done. He offers five great tips on how to get things done.

7 Tips to Conquer the Winter Doldrums

This article offers 7 tips that you can use so you can conquer the winter doldrums and start to feel better before springtime.

4 Ways to Improve Your Luck

Research demonstrates that luck may be less about chance than you think. Here are 4 principles you can use to get luckier starting today.

Why this dirty word can actually be good for you

This article discusses why some selfishness can be crucial to your wellness and how to be healthfully selfish.

7 Tips to Manage Your Stress

This article offers seven tips from the American Psychological Association on how to manage stress.

What is mental health?

This article discusses Dr. Daniel Siegel's definition of mental health.