Anxiety disorders cause problems for millions of people.  Here are resources for panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), phobias, generalized anxiety disorder, and other forms of anxiety.

Obsessive Compulsive Disorder & PTSD

Obsessive-compulsive disorder consists of thinking too much "obsessing" and doing things to stop the obsessive thoughts (compulsions). Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating condition that follows a terrifying event.

Panic Disorder, Phobias and Social Anxiety Disorder

Social Anxiety Disorder is also called Social Phobia. It is sometimes thought of as a fear of social situations. Other phobias are fears of specific things or situations.

What You Need to Know About Anxiety Disorders

anxiety disorders panic disorder generalized anxiety disorder GAD stress tension shyness allergic to people uptight

Anxiety Medications

Information on benzodiazepines and other medications use to treat anxiety.

Is Anyone Allergic to People?

Social Phobia gets a new ad campaign

Virtual Reality Biofeedback

NASA research allows you to see your body from the inside-out.

Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

The effects of trauma are not just from combat.

Panic Attacks: Effective Ways to Cope

A person with panic disorder develops anxiety attacks associated with the thought that he or she would die or develop a stroke or heart attack. Physical changes such as fast heart beat, shortness of breath, fainting episodes, sweating and tremulousness are some of the accompanying symptoms.

Another View of Social Phobia

A first-hand account of social phobia.

Social Phobia or Social Anxiety Disorder

Social Phobia or SAD is a type of anxiety disorder characterized by extreme fear, anxiety, or distress when exposed to a social gathering or when doing something before a group of people.

Lexapro Approved for Generalized Anxiety Disorder

The SSRI Lexapro (escitalopram oxalate) has been approved for treatment of Generalized Anxiety Diorder (in addition to treatment of depression).

Cognitive Therapy for Depression and Anxiety

Find out more about these effective techniques.

Facts about Social Phobia

Social phobia, also called social anxiety, is a disorder characterized by overwhelming anxiety and excessive self-consciousness in everyday social situations.

Benzodiazepines - to treat anxiety

Benzodiazepines are the most commonly used medications to treat anxiety disorders.

Generalized Anxiety Disorder - The Basics

It is estimated that 3-4% of the general population suffers from Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD). GAD is characterized by excessive worry that occurs more often than not for a period of at least 6 months.

Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), A Real Illness

A brochure produced by NIMH to help people understand Generalized Anxiety Disorder

Anxiety Poorly Managed in Hospitalized Patients

Anxiety is often poorly managed in patients recovering from a heart attack. While records revealed that nearly 75 percent of patients in a recent study had received treatment for anxiety, symptoms of anxiety were documented on less than half of the patients' charts.

Anxiety Disorders Association of America

Anxiety Disorders Association of America (ADAA), a nonprofit organization, was founded in 1980. Their site includes information for consumers and professionals.

Social Anxiety - Factsforhealth.org

Information about effective treatment of Social Anxiety Disorder from the Madison Institute of Medicine.

Anxiety and Panic Disorders at About

An excellent side developed by Cathleen Henning, who is recovering from panic disorder and has a Masters degree in English. Her site has lots of links, and she includes a "Soothing Site of The Day" to help calm feelings of panic.

The Anxiety Panic Internet Resource

is "a grass roots project" with lots of information on anxiety and panic.   This is a comprehensive site with chat rooms, a bulletin boards, and lots of content.

The Anxiety Relief Center

is a site built by Bristol-Myers Squibb to promote their anti-anxiety medication BuSpar. The site includes some basic information on "persistent anxiety," a humor zone, and lots of information (for U.S. internet users) about BuSpar.

David Baldwin's Trauma Info Pages

provides information about traumatic stress for clinicians and researchers, but it is also a helpful resource for trauma survivors and their families.

How to Treat Your own Panic Disorder

focuses on research that suggests that some of the symptoms of panic disorder are caused by low levels of carbon dioxide in the blood.

International Paruresis Association

Do you have trouble peeing when others are present?  This site has serious information on "bladder shyness" - a real anxiety disorder that afflicts up to 7% of the population.

National Anxiety Foundation

A site with information on anxiety disorders and a listing of local professionals who treat these disorders.

Support for Support People

A Canadian site for families, friends, and other support persons.