Kevin Passero, ND: The most frustrating part has to do with how little recognition Naturopathic Medicine currently has in the United States. Many people have not heard the term and have no idea that there are primary care doctors trained in holistic medicine out there practicing. Like osteopaths, chiropractors, and acupuncturists in the past, our profession has had to fight for recognition in each state to achieve legitimate licensure, which is why our ability to practice to our full scope is limited to 16 states and the District of Colombia. As the immediate past president of the Maryland Association of Naturopathic Physicians, this issue hits very close to home for me as I have been diligently working for the past four years to have Naturopathic Doctors recognized and licensed in my home state of Maryland. I have learned that the politics of medicine does not line up with what is best for patients. The state medical society and traditionally trained physicians have worked very hard to limit healthcare choices for the residents of Maryland and many other states. They fight a turf battle that hopes to exclude other health care practitioners from gaining access to their patients. They do this in spite of the volumes of literature we have presented to them regarding our rigorous training, national board examinations, clinical experience and record of safety. In some states, Naturopathic doctors have been fully licensed since the mid-1900s and have displayed the most impeccable standards of safety and the ability to significantly lower health care expenditures based on our primarily preventative approach to healthcare. I have learned that medical societies have enormous financial resources and typically have huge influence over politics. The desire of a few to block access to safe holistic care prevents millions from having access to a form of medicine that could help save the healthcare disaster going on in America. It is truly the fight of David vs. Goliath. On a positive note, we are making progress. In Maryland, for example, we've been able to convince many legislators that the people of Maryland deserve access to well-trained holistic physicians. This year we made massive progress in both the Maryland Senate and House of Delegates. In fact, our bill passed a critical Senate subcommittee vote 9-2. We as a profession are unrelenting in our mission and believe that our training, our integrity, and the desire people have for healthcare choices will overcome our obstacles. We have had thousands of Maryland residents devote their time and efforts to make this a reality and have had many Maryland-based medical doctors come to our defense and testify to the extensive level of training and skill Naturopathic doctors bring to the healthcare setting. Mary Shomon: What do you feel that a holistic, integrative practitioner like yourself brings to thyroid care, in contrast to conventional practitioners? Kevin Passero, ND: As we have discussed throughout the interview, I think one of the most valuable things I bring to the table when dealing with thyroid care is an approach that is tailored to each person's specific needs. This is based on many different factors including lab tests, feedback from patients, and thorough assessments of all aspects of their health. No part of your body operates in complete isolation from the rest of the system so one must truly take a holistic perspective when addressing a health concern. With every patient, I discuss the aspects of how nutrition affects thyroid disorders and make sure everyone has a diet plan that will work to support their thyroid health. In addition, detailed evaluation and treatment of other related systems (sex hormones and adrenals) are absolutely necessary to achieve optimal outcomes when working with thyroid disease. In addition, I work with patients to determine which option is the best for their thyroid situation. There are many different types of thyroid medication available as well as natural treatments for certain thyroid conditions, and different people need different ones in order to thrive. The biggest problem with traditional thyroid care is that it is approached as a one-size-fits-all condition. Nothing could be further from the truth when it comes to working with thyroid disorders. A holistic/integrative approach to thyroid dysfunction is essential for most people to have optimal outcomes. Mary Shomon: Do you feel like the current way of diagnosing thyroid disease -- the TSH test with the "official" normal range of .5 to 5.0 -- is adequate, or is it missing people who have thyroid disease? Kevin Passero, ND: This topic is hotly debated amongst various health care professionals and I firmly stand by the position that the current TSH range is far too broad and leads to millions of people missing a critical diagnosis that could significantly impact their health. In fact, the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists announced in 2002 that the range of TSH should be narrowed to 0.3 - 3.0, which would have essentially doubled the amount of people in North America who would fit the criteria of hypothyroid. Mary, you have written about this numerous times and I encourage people to read your full analysis of this finding. The scary thing is that even though the recognized experts in thyroid disorders made this announcement ten years ago, little has changed. Most labs still list the reference range as 0.5-5.0 and most doctors never got the memo that the criteria for diagnosing hypothyroidism had shifted. Every week I have people coming into my office with symptoms of hypothyroidism who have no idea their thyroid gland is having any influence over their health because their TSH was between 0.5-5.0 and their doctor said it was normal. In fact, I routinely see people with all the symptoms of thyroid disorders with TSH levels over 5.0 who have been told their thyroid is fine and they should wait 3 to 6 moths and retest! Meanwhile, the individual is miserable and scared because nobody can explain why they are fatigued all the time, gaining weight, having trouble focusing and rapidly losing their quality of life. It is also critical to remember that doctors should be treating people, not lab tests. Every person is unique regarding where they feel best within that broad range and feedback from the patient, along with careful analysis of the lab report, is the key to properly managing and supporting thyroid issues. Mary Shomon: What lab tests do you feel are essential to making an accurate and thorough thyroid diagnosis? Kevin Passero, ND: I lecture on this all the time and teach these principles to all of my thyroid patients so that they have the tools to take control of their health. It is essential to have the following tests: Mary Shomon: What else do you feel is particularly important to your thyroid evaluation of patients? Kevin Passero, ND: There is no other system related to thyroid health more overlooked than the adrenal glands. These small glands located above the kidneys are responsible for managing all stress in your body. What most people don't understand is that thyroid hormone in its own way is a stress on the body. Take, for example, a person who has been prescribed a slight overdose of thyroid medicine. They feel anxious and jittery, have trouble sleeping and often experience heart racing... all symptoms related to stress. The point is that if the adrenal system is not strong, the thyroid will automatically alter its function to accommodate a weaker resilience to stress. I have seen many people with borderline thyroid issues have those issues fully resolved just by doing appropriate therapy with the adrenal system. In the majority of the other thyroid cases, I see the adrenal system plays an equally important role even though the thyroid needs to be addressed directly. The interplay of adrenal hormones, particularly cortisol, and thyroid hormones are so closely related it is a huge disservice to not take both into account. Properly testing and assessing adrenal hormones is a critical part of managing thyroid disorders. Sex hormones, particularly estrogen, also play an important role in thyroid hormone balance and thyroid function. It is a well-known fact that thyroid function can change drastically during pregnancy due to estrogen surges. This interplay between the hormones can play out in a more subtle but equally important fashion when sex hormone imbalances exist. Properly testing and assessing sex hormones is a critical part of managing thyroid disorders. Lastly, diet and nutrition has a significant impact on thyroid function. For example, food sensitivities, particularly reactions to gluten, play a critical role in the autoimmune process associated with Hashimoto's disease. The nutrient content of food including selenium, zinc, vitamin D, omega 3 fatty acids, B6 and iodine are also very important when it comes to thyroid function and thyroid hormone balance. Proper testing of nutritional status and evaluation of diet is critical in order to have people enjoy the best possible outcomes. Mary Shomon: What is the best medication for thyroid hormone replacement, in your opinion? Kevin Passero, ND: Through my years of experience, I have learned there is no one answer to this question. In order to have the best outcomes, every person needs to be evaluated on a case by case basis. In my early years, I might have said that natural desiccated thyroid drugs like Armour thyroid and Nature-throid were the best, and standard prescriptions like Synthroid were less ideal, but I have learned that these views do not reflect what plays out in clinical practice. I will say that the majority of people with hypothyroidism have only been prescribed the most common thyroid medication, Synthroid, and feel there is something to be desired. I agree wholeheartedly and find that the majority of these people often need that prescription augmented or changed entirely to feel their best. With that said, I have met many patients that thrive on Synthroid and other synthetic T4 analogues and I have learned to take an approach that always puts the patient's needs first and removes any pre-determined bias on my part. Mary Shomon: When you see a woman who is suffering from fatigue, depression or mood changes, struggling to lose weight or other similar symptoms, besides blood tests, what process do you typically go through to get to a diagnosis? Kevin Passero, ND: Many different factors can contribute to the symptoms you have listed above. Thyroid disorder is certainly one of them and typically the most accurate way to diagnose that type of health problem is through a blood test. However, many other imbalances in the body can result in the presentation of those symptoms so first and foremost, it is critical to listen and take a detailed health history. This is one of the most important parts of understanding a case and working to identify the root cause of the issue. This health history is what helps me decide what other diagnostic tools I will need to utilize to accurately assess the situation. Salivary hormone testing, diagnostic imaging, neurotransmitter evaluations, heavy metal testing and food sensitivity testing are just a few potentially valuable tools that can help shed light on the root cause of someone's health concern. Without a detailed health history, it is impossible to know which ones to utilize. Lastly, a good physical exam is very important as well. This is a way for the clinician to evaluate the body and its different systems in real time. Did you know that before blood tests were available, doctors would diagnose thyroid disorders using an Achilles tendon reflex test? To this day, this is still a valuable way to assess thyroid hormone balance. This is only one example of many very useful physical exam techniques that give great insight into the functioning of the body. Mary Shomon: How is your treatment of thyroid patients changing since you went into practice? Kevin Passero, ND: The most important thing I have learned is that every person truly is a unique case. You cannot put these issues into a box. For example, it cannot be assumed that everybody with a thyroid issue needs Armour or should be on Synthroid or that everybody should fall in the same range of TSH. These issues will vary for each person and should be determined on a case by case basis primarily based on feedback from the patient. The other most important thing I have learned is that thyroid issues rarely exist in isolation. There is a very delicate balance between the thyroid system, the adrenal system, and the sex hormones. If one is out of balance, the others are likely affected and it is best practices to evaluate all systems properly to decide the best treatment options. Mary Shomon: Do you have a philosophy or overall approach to treating thyroid/adrenal/reproductive hormone imbalances? Kevin Passero, ND: First and foremost, one must recognize that these systems operate in balance with each other, not in isolation of each other. As I have explained, dysfunction in one area will affect the others. Imagine a triangle, and at each intersection of lines, there is one of these organ systems. If you tip one end of the triangle, you will cause a resultant tip at the other ends of the triangle. This is a simple way to understand how an imbalance in one area will affect the other areas. These three systems are intimately interrelated and it is critical to create balance in all three in order to achieve balance in your triangle. Additionally, my philosophy as a whole also reflects the heart of my naturopathic training, which emphasizes a core belief that the body has a profound ability to heal and restore balance from within. My tools and therapies are intended to support that process and remove the obstacles blocking that healing process from occurring.