Help yourself become more mentally healthy. Self-help books have been popular for years. Self-help websites are a newer twist.

How to make New Year's Resolutions Stick - 2

Practical ways to keep New Years resolutions.

Build your Self Esteem, a Guide to Self Improvement

How do you stay cool, composed and sustain self esteem in a tough environment? Here are some tips you may to consider as a starter guide to self improvement. A reader-submitted article.

A Simple Form of Meditation

The Relaxation Response is a simple form of meditation that anyone can use. Using this simple technique daily can decrease stress in your life and help you focus.

How to make New Year's Resolutions Stick

New Years Resolutions can become lasting habits

Where is Your Happiness? Past, Present, or Future??

Achieving a level of personal happiness previously unknown is closer than you think. Much closer. But first, it's important to stay in touch with the present.

Do Opposites Really Attract?

Are your friends people who you would not mind having as relatives? Are your relatives people who you would choose as friends? Would you socialize with your business associates outside of the workplace?

Ten Tips for Managing Conflict, Tension and Anger

Practical suggestions to help you interact more effectively with others.

Counting Assholes: A Cognitive-Behavioral Intervention for Road Rage

Counting assholes can help you drive more safely without getting angry at other drivers. Try it next time you find yourself getting angry on the highway.

Managing Your Anger

The Incredible Hulk is a fantasy story based on the emotion of anger. Is it really good to express your anger? How can anger be managed?

MEDLINE Plus Mental Health Information

Information on mental disorders and mental health issues compiled by the National Library of Medicine.

Are those Psychological Tests on the Net Valid?

Personality tests and intelligence tests are springing-up on the net. How good are they?

Where to go Online if your Family Needs Help

Resources for families

Helping a Son or Daughter in College

The last year of high school can be rough on parents. Your son or daughter usually feels ready to be an independent adult, but they often don't act with the same maturity. If your son or daughter is ready to start college you have an opportunity to help him or her become an adult. It can be a little tricky. Here are some tips that may help.

Maybe it's not too late - Growing new Brain Cells

New research suggests ways to stay alert and sane as we age.

Coping with Snipers and Terrorists

These resources were collected during the 10/02 sniper scare in the U.S., but they can help you cope with terrorism of any sort.

The Net helps you care for a loved one with Alzheimer's

Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Online (AlzOnline) was developed as a resource for Alzheimer's caregivers in the state of Florida, but most of the services are now available for caregivers throughout the world.

Make New Year's Resolutions Stick

How to make lasting changes in your life - Pauline Wallin, Ph.D.

Making Friends with Chronic Pain

It's possible to change the way that the brain interprets pain signals - If you stop fighting.

The Dilemma of 'Denial'

If you deny being an alcoholic then you must be one (huh?)

Psychopharmacology on the Net

Drug Companies and Independent Resources.

Ask NOAH About: Mental Health

A bilingual mental health site in English and Spanish.

National Mental Health Consumers' Self-Help Clearinghouse

A national technical assistance center partially funded by a federal grant. An organization that helps consumers plan, provide, and evaluate mental health and community support services.

Handling your Psychiatric Disability in Work & School

The Center for Psychiatric Rehabilitation at Boston University has provided a very practical resource for persons diagnosed with a mental illness.

Psychological Self-Help

is a 1000 page online searchable book loaded with mental health information. Located within Mental Health Net, this book is a wonderful resource for anyone looking for information about human psychology and mental health.

Self-Help & Psychology Magazine

is an electronic publication which includes articles on all aspects of mental health.

HealthyPlace.com

A group of support communities for people with different problems. Each community has many different ways for participants to interact.

WebMD Mental Health

Mental health information from the WebMD mega-site. Their site includes information from the Cleveland Clinic along with a good collection of news summaries.

Psychology Free Online Medical Advice

A very interesting project using natural language to assist people in finding answers to mental health questions. This european site is available in several languages and provides excellent information.

Facts for Families

is an informative set of brochures on family issues from the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.

32 Keys - A Collection of Ideas about Life

A set of concise ideas by Ken McIsaac to help your life work better.

Afterhours Inspirational Stories

  This site could be called "Chicken Soup for the Web."  A great place to visit if you're depressed or if you just need some inspiration.

Alt.Support.Shyness FAQ

The "frequently asked questions" list for alt.support shyness on Usenet. This site answers questions about shyness and how to overcome it.

Assertiveness Training

A site designed by Linda Tillman, Ph.D. to supplement an assertiveness training class for Evening at Emory

Beacon of Hope

is a site for partners of individuals touched by mental illness.

Finding and Evaluating a Therapist

1-800-Therapist now has original articles such as this one to help you with mental health issues.

InnerPeace

An interesting free self-help program which can be run from the Web or downloaded.  Try it to help you let go of issues that are causing problems.

Joy to Me and You

Robert Burney's site focuses on Codependency. There is a blend of 12-step and spiritual material.

Philosophy and Self-Help

A very interesting site which poses philosophical questions and provides some different answers.

Psychology Information Online

Donald J. Franklin, Ph.D. has gathered a lot of good information about the practice of psychology.

APA Help Center

Excellent consumer resources from the American Psychological Association.

Optimal Thinking

This site mostly sells books and seminars, but there is also some Online content. Start with "positive thinking" and replace the word "positive" with "optimal" - you get the idea.

Self-Help Sourcebook Online

Part of Mental Health Net, this is a good starting point to explore real-life support groups throughout the world and in your community

The QuitNet

is an Internet stop-smoking resource. It is a joint program of the Boston University School of Public Health, and the Massachusetts Tobacco Control Program. Counselors from American Cancer Society's Quitline participate in The QuitNet's forums.

Triumphant Journey

  Described as a "cyberguide to stop overeating and recover from eating disorders" this site by Joanna Poppink, MFCC is recommended for those with this problem.

Thrivenet

is a mental health that focuses on staying mentally healthy. The site focuses on "resilience, thriving, and how to gain strength from adversity."

Psychology Info

Psychology and mental health information. Much of it is from government resources. (disclaimer - also a site of mine.)

Wellness OnLine

Home of the Berkeley Wellness letter, great ideas to motivate you to improve your health and well-being.