Normal and abnormal menstruation information from abnormal uterine bleeding to what it means when periods are late, heavy, or accompanied by PMS or cramps, as well as details about what to expect during a normal period and menstrual cycle.

Do You Have Period Problems?

Most women experience period problems at least once during their reproductive years. Learn about abnormal periods, PMS, and other period problems.

Types of Benign Breast Changes

Types of breast changes are explored. Discover the facts about breast lumps, nipple discharges, and other breast or nipple infections and inflammations.

How Can I Prevent or Reduce the Symptoms of Perimenopause?

Perimenopause often comes with a number of symptoms from irregular bleeding to hot flashes, night sweats, and mood changes. Learn ways that you can reduce the severity of perimenopausal symptoms.

What Is Anemia?

Fatigue is the most common symptom experienced by those who have anemia. Several types of anemia may be diagnosed, and treatment for anemia varies by type and severity.

Why Is Blood Red?

A look at why blood is red. Covers the role of red blood cells in the cells and tissues of your body.

What Is Iron Deficiency Anemia?

Iron deficiency anemia is the most common type of anemia. Those most affected by iron deficiency anemia include young children, girls who have reached menarche, and women during their reproductive years.

Ending Premenstrual Syndrome 10 Ways to Reduce the Symptoms of PMS

Ten ways to reduce and/ or eliminate the symptoms of premenstrual syndrome or PMS. Includes information about premenstrual dysphoric disorder or PMDD.

Treatments For Iron Deficiency Anemia

While excessive blood loss most commonly causes iron deficiency anemia, increasing your dietary intake of iron-rich foods can both help prevent and treat low iron levels in your blood.

Do Iron Supplements for Anemia Cause Upset Stomach or Constipation?

It has estimated that up to a quarter of anemic people who take iron supplements experience digestive tract side effects with an upset stomach, constipation, or both being most common.

Who Is Most at Risk for Developing Low Iron Anemia?

Generally, women face the greatest risk of developing low iron anemia during their childbearing years from first menstruation until menopause occurs and menstruation ends.

What Are The Symptoms Of Iron Deficiency Anemia?

The most common symptom of iron deficiency anemia is fatigue. Learn about the other symptoms of iron deficiency anemia.

Going to the Gynecologist 101

When to have your first gynecology exam and Pap test, as well as when to see your Ob/Gyn for subsequent pelvic exams. Covers abnormal Pap test results, colposcopy, and numerous other reproductive health diseases, conditions, and tests, as well as what things are important to discuss with your gynecologist.

Tampons, Pads,Or Something Else

Readers share experiences and preferences using tampons, pads, and other menstrual hygiene products.

What is Menstruation?

A look at what happens during normal menstruation and when to expect your first period. Includes information about menstrual cycle disorders including abnormal uterine bleeding patterns, PMS, PMDD, and cramps or dysmenorrhea.

The Phases of the Menstrual Cycle

The menstrual cycle occurs in two distinct phases that begin on the first day you have your period and end on the day before you begin menstruating. Find out what's going on in your body during the phases of your menstrual cycle.

Menstrual Disorders

About.com's Menstrual Disorders site provides a wealth of information about menstruation including the basics about normal menstruation and first periods, as well as facts about abnormal bleeding patterns, PMS, PMDD, and cramps.

Let Your Hormones Guide Your Holiday Shopping - Stress Free Happy Holidays

Learn how the ups and downs of the menstrual cycle impacts how we feel about holiday shopping, as well as every other aspect of life. These tips are you're free pass to stress free holiday shopping days and less stressful days 365 days a year.

Understanding Menstruation

Discover what really happens to your body during your monthly menstrual cycle. Learn about the role hormones play throughout the month in a woman's body from puberty to menopause.

The Tampon Debate

Women have used tampons for thousands of years. Rumors are rampant, on the Net, about possible health risks that women who use tampons might eventually confront. Discover the truth about tampons.

Your Period and the Menstrual Cyle

A look a questions often asked by girls and women about their periods and menstrual cycles.

The Cycles Page -- Personalized Online Fertility Tracking

Provides online tools for tracking your periods and your fertile period during your menstrual cycle.

Symptoms of Toxic Shock Syndrome

A look at the criteria used to diagnose Toxic Shock Syndrome or TSS.

How to Make a Menstrual Cycle Calendar

Making a menstrual cycle calendar is a simple, and easy, way to record your reproductive health. Learn how to keep track of your period and any symptoms that may be associated with your menstrual cycle.

How to Reduce Your Risk of Toxic Shock Syndrome

Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS) is caused by staphylococci in the vagina that enters the bloodstream. Although scientists have recognized a connection between tampons and TSS, the exact connection remains unclear.

Things to Know About Your Period

Did you know that the length and timing of your period can vary from month to month and still be normal? Or that dark clumps of tissue in your menstruation is normal? Learn about these and other interesting facts about periods.

Your Period - Answers for Teens

Comprehensives answers to questions, often asked by teens, about first periods and menstruation.

How Your Period Makes You Feel

Some young women say they never get cramps with their periods, while others experience severe pain and fatigue every month. Cramps are caused by your uterus contracting as it works to shed its lining.

When Should I See a Doctor for Period Problems?

A look at signs and symptoms that indicate it's time to see your doctor for period problems.

How Puberty and Menstruation Affect Your Dental Health

Did you know that the increase of sex hormones that begins at puberty, triggers the dilation of small blood vessels in the gums which is seen as an increase in redness, gingival bleeding, and swelling? Find out what women need to know about menstruation and dental health.

How Often Should I Change Menstrual Pads or Tampons?

Do you know how often you should change your menstrual pad or tampon? Learn how to know when it's time to change your sanitary pad, napkin, or tampon.

Getting Your First Period

Readers share stories about their first menstrual period. Find out what happens when girls get their first period. See submissions

How Do I Get Tampons To Fit Comfortably?

A tip to help you insert tampons comfortably.

Your Most Embarrassing Menstrual Moment

Share the story of your most embarrassing menstrual moment. Sharing the story of your most embarrassing menstrual moment can help other women see that they are not alone. See submissions

How To Prevent Menstrual Bloodstains

A simple tip to help keep menstrual bloodstains from ruining all of your panties. Also provides a tip to help prevent menstrual bloodstains from setting in on your bed sheets.

What Did Your Mother Tell You About Menstruation?

In the past, the subject of menstruation was often taboo. As a result, many of us were told things that were simply not true about menstruation. What did your mother tell you to prepare you for menstruation? See submissions

What Have You Told Your Daughter About Menstruation?

Readers share what they have told their daughters about menstruation. Get help deciding what to tell your daughter about getting her period. See submissions