First, read the list of questions below. Your question may have already been answered...

Submit Your Own Questions for Response to: 

seniorhealth@aboutguide.com?subject=QA Marian Eure RN, About's Guide to Senior Health.

Questions may not be answered individually but if they are topics that would be of general interest to all visitors, they will be posted on the Senior Health site. Check the index page frequently for new questions and answers.

How can I lessen the side effects of my blood pressure medications?

Isn't surgery the best treatment for rotator cuff injury?

How do I find the best doctor for my Mother?

How can I buy prescription medications without a prescription?

Where can I find information about "histo spots"?

Where can we get help finding health insurance for Dad?

Why would prednisone be used to diagnose anemia?

Are my daughter and her co-workers at risk of catching an infectious disease?

How do I find help for my Dad in caring for my Mom?

Is there a cure for toenail fungus?

What is the difference between "skilled" and "custodial" care?

How much fat should I eat?

What could be making my father collapse?

What can you tell me about hypoglycemia?

I have an irregular heartbeat - what can I expect?

My question is about elder abuse?

How can I find financial help for a stroke patient?

How can I find health care for my Mother who is not a citizen?

Is Diovan the same as Cozaar?

Were can I find health insurance that covers care outside the US?

Do additional vitamins and minerals help improve health?

Are there alternative treatments for arthritis?

Is there a relationship between impotence and sexual aggression?

What are the long term effects of taking mineral oil?

What exercises would be good for a sore shoulder?

Are there alternative treatments for Rheumatoid Arthritis?

How do you keep a senior mentally fit?

How do you calculate the amount of fat in your diet?

Should we be concerned about a black spot on a toenail?

How can I find low cost drug programs for my grandfather?

What could be causing a decrease in my urine stream force?

What is causing the itchy rash on my hands?

When is the best time to take blood pressure medications?

What is the life expectancy for a woman with ovarian cancer?

Health coverage in Canada for American with Medicare?

At what age can signs of Parkinson's Disease be noticed?

How Is My Health Affected By Type 2 Diabetes?

Is it common for a senior to become confused after placement in skilled nursing?