A federal report on life expectancy, held some very interesting facts that while not surprising, are none the less food for thought. The report from the Federal Interagency Forum on Aging-Related Statistics looks statistics that give an indication of the state of health and well being for Americans over the age of 65 in the year 2000. It also uses those statistics to help predict the state of health and well being for seniors in the future. What makes this report so important is that it highlights the need for planning for the future.

The numbers in the report are staggering. There are at present about 13 million Americans over the age of 65, by 2050 it is projected the number of Americans in that age group will climb to over 80 million. Seniors over the age of 85 are the fastest growing segment of the over 65 population. Those over 65 today are predominately white (84%). That too will change according to predictions. The percentage of whites over the age of 65 will decline, as other ethnic minorities become more prevalent. Along with these changes seniors these days are significantly better educated and economic status has improved.

The down side of increased longevity is increased risk of certain diseases and disorders. As significant number of older people suffer from arthritis and hypertension . The leading cause of death among seniors is heart disease , cancer and stroke . Seniors who have developed good health and lifestyle habits should fair significantly better than those with a more sedentary lifestyle. Good nutrition and exercise are the cornerstones of the lifestyle changes that will make the extra years more enjoyable.

The amount of money spent on health care is proportionate to age and disability. Seniors aged 65 to 84 spent about $5,000 per year on health costs as compared to over $16,000 for those over the age of 85. Another significant finding was that the burden of health care costs was greater for lower and middle-income seniors than for those of higher incomes. Fewer people were receiving care in nursing homes, but those who were receiving care were significantly more disabled.

This report is expected to generate much discussion over the next few years as the country deals with the facts of an aging population and the impact they will make.