Information about diseases and conditions that affect seniors including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinsons disease, heart disease, cancer, osteoporosis,and infectious disease. Includes causes treatments;including drug treatments and ways to prevent.

Age Spots

Description of and information about age spots.

Shingles Vaccine Approved

The FDA has approved a new vaccine to help reduce the risk of developing shingles in adults age 60 and older.

Normal sleeping patterns for seniors

Question from a reader about her mother and her sleep habits. The read wants to know if this is normal or a symptom of a problem.

Severe skin rash with itch

Questions from a reader who does not want to bother a doctor about a skin rash.

Alternative Chronic Pain Treatments

Chronic pain is often treated by medications but other treatments such as acupunture, local electrical stimulation, brain stimulation and placebo can be effective.

Syncope Fainting

Syncope is a loss of consciousness also known as fainting.

Sleep Problems of Aging

Information about common sleep problems that affect older people that are not a part of normal aging.

Seniors Sleep Disorders

Information about sleep disorders that can affect the quality of life for seniors.

Hypothermia -Cold Weather Death

Information about the dangers of cold weather to seniors.

Shingles - Herpes Zoster

Information about Herpes Zoster also known as "shingles" that includes causes, syptoms and treatments available for the pain and inflammation.

Bed Sore Decubitus Ulcer

Definition and description of decubitus ulcer or bed sore.

Tendinitis, Bursitis, and Impingement Syndrome of the Shoulder

Information and description of these common conditions that can affect the shoulder and cause much pain.

Chemical Peel Wrinkle Removal

Information about the types of chemical peels that can help remove and reduce the appearance of wrinkles on the skin. Includes information on precaustions and recovery time.

Healthy Travel Plans

Many seniors who have the time and money to travel also have to deal with chronic health problems when they travel. Some preparations and common sense can help to make travel much more enjoyable.

Prevent Foodborne Illness

Food borne illness is especially prevalent during the warm summer months but can be prevented by following these tips for safe food preparation. Seniors are at special risk to their health from food borne illness.

Avoid Heat Related Illness

Seniors are at higher risk of heat realated illness due to sensory changes of aging. Learn how to beat the heat and stay healthy.

Anemia

Definition and information about anemia, a disorder of the blood.

What Is Likely To Kill You

The leading causes of death among adults over the age of 65 are also the among most common causes of death among the population as a whole. Many of these conditions are also highly preventable and treatable. It is important to understand these diseases, know when and where to get treatment and know how you can live with them to help prolong life and health.

Common Medical Conditions Affecting Seniors

There are several common medical conditions that can affect seniors, such as heart disease, cancer, arthritis, vision problems, and hearing loss.

Aging and Illness - Coping With Aging and Illness

Aging and Illness - Coping With Aging and Illness