Heart disease is the number one cause of death for adults over the age of 65 in the United States. Learn how to prevent heart disease with proper eating, exercise and medications. Learn how to recognize heart disease and learn how it is being treated.

Electrocardiogram

Information about the diagnostic test electrocardiogram or ECG that looks at the electrical activity of the heart and helps diagnose heart rhythm problems or heart damage.

Cholesterol Facts

High cholesterol is a common health problem among seniors. Learn what can cause high cholesterol and what can help to control it.

Arteriosclerosis

Definition of and information about arteriosclerosis or hardening of the arteries.

Aneurysm

Definition of the term aneurysm, an abnormal widening of a blood vessel. If it ruptures it can be fatal.

Tea Heart Healthy

Tea had many known health benefits and now a study shows tea drinking may help prevent a second heart attack.

Automated External Defibrillator - AED

Information about Automated External Defibrillators (AED) and their value in saving lives when cardiac arrest occurs in public places.

Exercise Tolerance Test

Description of exercise tolerance test used to diaganose the health and efficiency of the cardiorespiratory (heart and lungs) system.

Laughter Good For Health

Medical study shows laughter may prevent heart disese. Laughter may be key to stress management.

Ventricular Arrhythmias

Information about ventricular arrythmia that includes the latest treaments available.

Heart Failure Causes

Information about the leading causes of heart failure.

Viagra Risky To Those With Heart Disease

Physicians warned to be cautious in prescribing Viagra for erectile dysfunction.

Laughter Is Good For Your Heart

A medical study shows that laughter is a healthy thing. You may want to add joke of the day to your health routine.

Getting the Shock of Your Life

Information about automated external defibrillators and how they can save lives.

Facts About Arrhythmia/Rhythm Disorders

Do you ever feel your heart is skipping a beat or feel a flutter in your chest. Check out this information on arrhythmia that affect the heart.

Physical Activity & Heart Disease

Test how much you know about how physical activity affects your heart.

Heart Failure

An overview of heart failure, from symptoms to treatments; includes a glossary.