Fitness includes information about ways seniors can stay fit, including information on walking, sports, strength exercises, aerobics, relaxation and dance that helps to get them moving.

Fun and Fit

Having fun while you exercise can help ensure success in your quest to be fit. Swim, dance or bike, these tips and resources can help you find fun in your fitness.

Water Exercise for fitness and pain relief

Information about water exercise that can help seniors stay fit while reducing the pain of osteoarthritis

Best Fitness Program For Seniors

The best fitness program is the one you will stick with. It might be running, walking, biking or a combination but it needs to be done on a regular basis to be effective.

Strength Training for Seniors

Question from a visitor about strength exercise and how it should be done to improve a seniors strenght and safety.

Exercise Speeds Wound Healing

Exercise appears to speed wound healing in older adults according to a new study.

Middle Age

Information about the effect of physical activity on the development of dementia.

Cold Water Exercise May Increase Appitite

Quick tip that can help make your exercise routine more effective exercise in water. Water temperature may make a difference.

Cardiovascular Exercise Videos For Seniors

Top Ten Picks Videos About Cardiovascular Exercise from your About.com Guide

Prevent Golf Injuries

Golf can be a very healthy pastime if you walk the course while playing. It can also cause injury if no done properly or with preparation.

Treating Depression With Exercise

A study suggests that exercise may be as effective as medication in the treatment of depression in seniors.

Strength Exercises

Strength exercises can increase muscle size which can make a big difference in your quality of life.

Feeling Fit For Life

It is possible to stay fit for life if you exercise regularly and keep your muscles strong.

Starting a Fitness Program at Any Age

This article from your guide has tips and resources to help you start a fitness program.

Dance Your Way To Health

Fitness can be fun. Find out how to dance your way to health.

Top Ten Reasons For Not Exercising

A tongue-in-cheek article, to help you stop making excuses and start exercising.

Physical Activity & Heart Disease

Test how much you know about how physical activity affects your heart.

A Good Reason To Exercise

Information about exercise and how it can help to make bones stronger and prevent osteoporosis.