
 

Treatment of Hashimoto’s disease, the autoimmune condition that often results in hypothyroidism, is more controversial.  Some practitioners believe that Hashimoto’s requires no treatment, and will only treat a patient with 
thyroid hormone replacement drugs when the Hashimoto’s has resulted in hypothyroidism that can be verified through laboratory testing. (The distinction is outlined in the article Hashimoto's vs. Hypothyroidism: What's the Difference? A Look at Autoimmune Thyroid Disease and Underactive Thyroid Conditions.)  

Some practitioners believe that Hashimoto’s, which can be confirmed by testing for 
thyroid antibodies, warrants treatment in some patients. There is some evidence that treating Hashimoto’s disease with thyroid hormone replacement drugs before the thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level rises may alleviate some symptoms. Some research suggests that treating someone with Hashimoto’s but a normal TSH may help prevent elevation of the TSH level and progression to full hypothyroidism.  This is discussed further in Treating Hashimoto's When the TSH is Normal.  

On the integrative medicine front, some holistic practitioners recommend iodine supplementation, other nutritional supplements, dietary changes, particular yoga poses, mind-body medicine, and other complementary approaches to help the thyroid.  
 


Hyperthyroidism is treated by reducing the excess hormone levels, which is accomplished in several different ways: 

 
An in-depth look at the key treatment options for Graves' Disease and hyperthyroidism is featured here at the site.  

Generally, the approach used for treatment depends on the severity of the condition, whether or not the patient is a child or a pregnant woman, and in some cases, the preference or perspective of the treating physician.  There are also differences in approaches between the United States and other countries in terms of the treatments used. In the United States, surgery is rarely done for hyperthyroidism (except for pregnant women), and RAI is the treatment of choice, to the extent that some patients may not even be informed that antithyroid drugs or surgery are options. In Europe, however, antithyroid drug therapy is likely to be a practitioner’s first choice for treatment.  

Interest is also growing in thyroid arterial embolization, a new approach for Graves' disease treatment. 

In some cases, key hyperthyroidism symptoms such as rapid heart rate or elevated blood pressure are also treated with drugs known as beta-blockers.  


Most thyroid patients who receive RAI treatment or have surgery eventually end up hypothyroid, and are treated with thyroid hormone replacement drugs.  

Some integrative practitioners recommend stress reduction programs, antithyroid dietary and nutritional changes, traditional Chinese medicine, and other holistic approaches to help an overactive thyroid.  

A complete look at treatment options for Graves' Disease and hyperthyroidism is featured in this article. 
 
 

As noted, in some cases, Hashimoto’s thyroiditis is 
treated  with thyroid hormone replacement drugs.

For cases of thyroiditis that are painful, doctors typically recommend a pain-reliever with anti-inflammatory properties, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil/Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve).  


If the thyroiditis is especially acute, doctors occasionally recommend steroid drugs to reduce inflammation, along with thyroid hormone replacement drugs, to allow the thyroid to rest from its job of hormone production.  

On the nutritional front, there is some evidence that supplementing with the mineral selenium may help thyroiditis.  

More on specific types of thyroiditis:

 

A goiter can cause a variety of symptoms, including a feeling of fullness in the neck, pain, and less commonly, may wrap around the trachea, making it difficult to swallow or even breathe.  