Alzheimer's Disease is a dementia causing disease that robs its victims of their memory, their personality and eventually their lives. There are some treatments and research into a cure is ongoing. Other dementia causing diseases are discussed.

Poor Physical Performance May Increase Risk of Alzheimers

Research shows a link between poor physical health and incidence of dementia including Alzheimer's disease.

Memory Loss is Not Inevitable Part of Aging

Memory loss is not always a consequence of aging. Memory loss can be treated and corrected in some cases.

Vascular Dementia

Ifomation about a common type of dementia - vascular dementia not caused by Alzheimer's diasese that occures in older adults.

Midlife Obesity Raises Risk of Alzheimer's Disease

Information about a study that shows weight problems in the middle years increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease.

Maintain Mental Fitness

Strategies for keeping you or a loved one mentally fit as they age.

Exercise Reduces Alzheimer's Risk

Christine Kennard Abouts Alzheimers Diseae Guide looks at exercise and its effect on Alzheier's disease risk.

Dementia

Definition of dementia as it is used in describing the effects of diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease.

FAQ Picks Disease Cause of Death

Question from a visitor about the prognosis and cause of death from Picks Disease.

Early Alzheimer's

Not sure what Alzheimer's disease looks like in it's early stages? This information can help you to understand the changes going on early on.

Mental Fitness

Use it, don't lose it! These tips will help you to keep your wits about you.

Imagination and Memory

Information from the National Institute on Ageing on using imagination as technique to boost memory.

Namenda and Alzheimer's Disease

Information about the newest drug in the fight against Alzheimer's disease.

Alzheimer's Disease Centers

The federal government supports research on causes and treatments at several centers nationwide. Find a center near you.

Forgetfulness

Is forgetfulness the first sign of Alzheimer's Disease? Learn all about memory loss.

Estrogen No Cure For Alzheimers

New research eliminates this hormone as a treatment for Alzheimer's Disease.