High blood pressure is a symptom of some other health problem that is affecting seniors. It can be caused by illness, obesity, smoking or some genetic disorders. If untreated it can lead to serious health problems like stroke. Learn how to lower blood pressure. Includes information on DASH diet and medications.

Loneliness, High Blood Pressure, Older Adults

Loneliness is linked to high blood pressure in older adults in a study from reasearchers from the University of Chicago.

Early Treatment Can Prevent Hypertension

Treating prehypertension may help prevent the development of hypertension and the conditions it may lead to.

Sodium In Diet Still Too High

Research shows that Americans still have too much sodium in their diet despite medical warnings that it leads to high blood pressure and greater risk of heart disease and stroke.

Diabetes and Hypertension Tied To Cognitive Decline

Diabetes and high blood pressure are responible for many health condition including stroke, heart diseaes and now may be linked to cognitive decline.

Blood pressure medications

Should you stop taking a medication because the condition you have been taking the medication for has improved? Why you should talk with your doctor.

Poor Control of Blood Pressure in Elderly

Well over 75% of seniors over the age of 80 have high blood pressure that is not being controlled, putting them at higher risk for heart attack and stroke.

Limit Salt to Lower Blood Pressure

Too much salt in the diet can increase blood pressure. Learn how much you need and which foods should be avoided.

High Blood Pressure

This disorder is more common than you might realize, but can generally be controlled with medications and lifestyle changes such as weight loss and exercise.

Diuretics Best Drug For High Blood Pressure

Information about a study that indicates the best medication for high blood pressure may also be the least expensive.

High Blood Pressure Care Guide

Information you can use along with your doctor's advice on lowering your blood pressure.

Women and Blood Pressure

Information about women and high blood pressure.

Health Risks Of Overweight

Obesity has grown to epidemic proportions in the US. Check out this review of the health risks of those extra prounds.