Women's heart health issues and diseases explained including symptoms, diagnosis, treatments, and prevention. Covers heart health issues and how women are affected differently than men. Includes facts about women and heart attacks, hypertension, stroke, and varicose veins, as well as other cardiovascular diseases.

Eating for A Healthy Heart

You are what you eat is particularly true when it comes to heart healthy eating. Learn how to cook delicious and heart healthy meals you whole family will enjoy.

The Truth About Iron Overload

Iron overload or hemochromatosis is explored from symptoms to diagnosis, treatment, and potential complications.

Must Have Medical Tests for Women - Health Screenings for Women - Women's Health

A review of diagnostic and health screens that women should have periodically. Includes information about the Pap test, HIV testing, mammograms, bone density testing, and STD tests, as well as other important medical tests for women.

Prevent Heart Disease

Discover a few simple tips to prevent heart disease among women. Preventing heart disease is easy when these tips are incorporated into your lifestyle.

Another Reason to Think Twice About HRT

We've all heard about estrogen replacement therapy (ERT). Millions of women, worldwide, either currently use estrogen or have used ERT in the past. Find out why the American Heart Association does not recomend estrogen for women with cardiovascular disease.

The Truth About Heart Disease In Women

Did you know that 1 of 3 women die of heart disease? Sadly, only about 33 percent of women know that heart disease is the #1 killer of women and men in the United States. Heart disease is not just a men's disease and it often leads to death, significant disability and change in quality of life. Learn the cold hard facts about heart disease and women.

Heart Disease Kills 18 Times More Women Than Breast Cancer

Actress Jane Seymour discusses the World Heart Federation's advice to women to about how to keep their hearts healthy. While breast cancer is often our number one fear, the truth is that heart disease and strokes are the number one killer of both women and men.

Heart Disease and Women

When Olympic athlete Florence Griffith Joyner lost her life to heart disease, all women were served with a wake up call about the importance of heart health. Find out what women need to know about the signs and symptoms of heart disease, and what you can do to lower your risk.

What to Know About Aspirin Therapy

What every woman needs to know about heart disease and aspirin therapy. Learn how women are affected by heart diseases and whether low dose aspiring therapy is beneficial.