Research has shown that diet affects the development of high blood pressure (hypertension). One diet -- the DASH -- has been found to be particularly useful in lowering elevated blood pressure.

This fact sheet explains what high blood pressure is and how you can follow the DASH eating plan. It offers tips on how to start and stay on the plan, as well as a week's worth of menus and recipes.

The eating plan is meant for those with elevated blood pressure. It also is a heart-healthy plan that you can share with your family.

Even slight elevations of blood pressure above the optimal level of less than 120/80 mm Hg are unhealthy. The higher above normal the blood pressure, the greater the health risk.

In the past, researchers tested various single nutrients -- such as calcium and magnesium -- to find clues about what affects blood pressure. These studies were done mostly with dietary supplements, and their findings were not conclusive.

Then, scientists supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) tested nutrients as they occur together in food. The results were dramatic. The clinical study, called "DASH" (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) found that elevated blood pressure can be reduced with an eating plan low in saturated fat, total fat and cholesterol, and rich in fruits, vegetables and lowfat dairy foods.

The plan is rich in magnesium, potassium, and calcium, as well as protein and fiber.

DASH research involved 459 adults with systolic blood pressures of less than 160 mm Hg and diastolic pressures of 80 to 95 mm Hg. About half of the participants were women and 60% were African Americans.

All three plans used about 3,000 milligrams of sodium daily -- about 20% below the U.S. average for adults. None of the plans was vegetarian or used specialty foods.

Results showed that both the fruit/vegetable and combination plans reduced blood pressure, but the combination plan had the greatest effect. The DASH eating plan reduced blood pressure by an average of about 6 mm Hg for systolic and 3 mm Hg for diastolic. It worked even better for those with high blood pressure -- the systolic dropped on average about 11 mm Hg, and the diastolic about 6 mm Hg. Further, the reductions came within just 2 weeks of starting the eating plan.

The amounts of the nutrients you'll get will vary by how much you eat. If you eat about 2,000 calories a day on the plan, the nutrients you get will include:

Those totals are about two to three times the amounts most Americans get.

You should be aware that the DASH plan has more daily servings of fruits, vegetables, and grains than you may be used to eating. This makes it high in fiber, which can cause bloating and diarrhea. To get used to the new eating plan, gradually increase your servings of fruits, vegetables, and grains.

Getting started is easy. The DASH plan requires no out-of-the-ordinary foods and has no hard-to-follow recipes.

One way to begin is by seeing how DASH compares with your current food habits. Use the "What's On Your Plate? " form. Fill it in for 1 or 2 days and see how it compares with the DASH plan. This will help you see what you need to change.

Remember that some days you may eat more than what's recommended from one food group and less of another. But don't worry. Just be sure that the average of several days or a week comes close to what's recommended.

Important Note: If you take medication to treat your high blood pressure, you should not stop your therapy. Use the DASH diet and talk about your drug treatment with your doctor.