Women face unique health challenges as they age. From menopause to osteoporosis they are at higher risk of many diseases and disorders. Review the information about the health challenges facing women as they age, including breast and uterine cancer, heart disease and osteoporosis.

Vaginal Dryness

Vaginal dryness can prevent older women from having an active and satisfying sex life by causing pain during intercourse. There is help.

Menopause

Definition and description of menoupause a period when a womans mensrual period ends.

Exercise Reduces Severe Menopausal Symptoms

A new study shows that women who suffer from severy menopausal symptoms benefit from a regular exercise program.

Older Women Special Health Needs

Women have a longer life expectancy but also have special health needs. Learn how women can live a longer and healthier life.

Screning for Ovarian Cancer

Currently acceptable menthod of screening for ovarain cancer.

Vaginitis

Information about vaginal infections that cause inflammation of the vagina characterized by discharge, odor, irritation, and/or itching.

Vaginitis

Vaginitis is an inflammation of the vagina characterized by discharge, odor, irritation, and/or itching.

Menopause Help

Information about ways to help relieve the uncomfortable effects of menopause without useing hormones.

Signs of Menopause

Information about the common signs of menopause that most women experience at some point as they go through "the change".

Pap Smear Post Hysterectomy

Women who have had a total hysterectomy should question the need for an anual pap smear.

Natural Menopuse Treatment

Guest article describing a natural approach to menopause and its symptoms and effects on women.

National Women's Check-Up Day

The day after Mother's Day has been designated as a day to remind women to call their doctor and make an appointment for their annual health checkup.

Cervical Cancer and Older Women

Interesting information about the threat of cervical cancer as it affects older women.

Menopause And Bladder Control

The changes in a women's body after menopause can lead to loss of bladder control.

Thyroid Cancer - Breast Cancer Link

Researchers have suspect a link between thyroid cancer treatment and an increased risk of developing breast cancer.

Older Women - The Future of Healthcare

A feature about women's health and their special needs in the future. From your About.com seniorhealth guide.

Women's Health About

Check out the great information from Tracee Cornforth, She deals with all aspects of women's health.

Breast Cancer Risk and Aging

Did you know that your chances of developing breast cancer increase significantly as you age?

Cervical Cancer - Public Health Concern

Information about the worldwide incidence of cervical cancer.

Ovarian Cancer

September is ovarian cancer awareness month. Know the risk factors of this silent killer of women.