One in three adults over the age of 65 will need some type of eldercare for either a short or long period of time. These resources are for seniors or caregivers looking for help and guidance in locating eldercare.

Options For Eldercare

Eldercare options for seniors based on their needs are examined.

Adult Day Care

Information about adult day care, what it is, what to look for and how to pay for it.

Elder Abuse

Definition of the term elder abuse which refers to the abuse of older and disabled adults.

Home Health Care for Seniors

Home health care is an option for seniors who are no longer able to be completely independent but want to avoid institutional care. Information on home health care options and paying for home health care.

Dementia in Nursing Home

Question from a visitor about a senior who became confused after moving to a skilled nursing facility.

Elder Abuse

Information and resources for dealing with and preventing elder abuse.

Fewer Seniors Are Crime Victims

Information about a study from the Justice Department about seniors and crime.

Respite Care Eldercare

Information about resources available for repite care to aid caregivers.

Ten Tips For Talking With Your Aging Parents

One of a series of online resources for caregivers and family caring for aging adults. This can help you overcome the often uncomfortable situation of talking with your parents about finances and healthcare.

Eldercare Checklists

This site provdes numerous checklist that caregivers canuse to help find the best services or care for loved ones.

Adjusting to New Surroundings

Help for seniors and caregivers when residential care becomes necessary.

Care Scout

This nursing home and home health rating and rankings system brings assistance right to the fingertips for family and caregivers looking for help on the net.

Caregiver Assistance Network

Provides support and information for caregivers of older adults and disabled persons.

Caregiver Network

Information on this support network for elder caregivers in Canada.

Caregivers.com

This site provides information about products and services that can enhance the quality of life of seniors and their caregivers.