"Treatment Effects" - Note that these are not called "side effects," because they are more or less the intended effects of taking Alli.  Basically, if you eat too much fat at a meal, you will be pretty uncomfortable.  The exact amount of fat that will trigger these effects varies per person, but it is recommended to eat no more than 15 grams of fat per meal.  Treatment effects include:

 Lack of absorption of vitamins - Fat-soluble vitamins can be flushed out along with the fat, so it is advised to take supplements of vitamins A, D, E, and K, and beta-carotene.  What is not addressed is that many phytonutrients also need fat to be absorbed, so people taking Alli may be getting less of these valuable substances as well.

 1) Low-carb diets should not be low in fat - You have to get your calories from somewhere, and if it's not from carbs, some of it is going to be from fat.

 2) Low-carb diets work partly because protein and fat are more satisfying than carbohydrate.  Therefore, people on low-carb diets naturally eat fewer calories.  Alli limits calories by limiting fat.

 3) Low-carb diets also work because they lower blood glucose and insulin.  Alli does not help with this.  In fact, it could conceivably raise blood glucose, to the extent that people replace fat with carbohydrates.


 If you are still interested in trying Alli after reading this article, be sure to read this patient information first.  It will inform you about whether you should consult your health care provider, drug interactions, side effects, and more.
Sources:
GlaxoSmithKline Web site, accessed July 2007

Anderson, JW, Schwartz, SM, Hauptman, J, et al. "Low-dose orlistat effects on body weight of mildly to moderately overweight individuals: a 16 week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial." Annals of Pharmacotherapy. 40.10 (2006):1717-23.

Brown, Melody, Ferruzzi, Mario Nguyen, Minhthy et al. "Carotenoid bioavailability is higher from salads ingested with full-fat than with fat-reduced salad dressings as measured with electrochemical detection." American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 80.2 (2004):396-403
