How Much Does IVF Cost?If you're considering IVF, you've probably heard it's expensive. Get the details on IVF costs, including donor eggs, embryos, and sperm costs, as well as ICSI and PGD cost. Borrowing Funds to Pay for Fertility TreatmentsIVF and IUI treatment can be expensive. Where can you get the money? One option is to borrow some of what you need. Learn about loans, credit cards, and other financing options to help you pay for fertility treatments. Crowdfunding for Infertility and IVFCrowdfunding is becoming a new way to raise money for fertility treatments or adoption. Learn what it is, how it works, and how to get started here. Grants and Scholarships for Fertility TreatmentYes, it's true! There are grants and scholarships available to help you cover the cost of infertility treatment or adoption. However, before you start applying, read this to avoid wasted time or costly mistakes. What Are IVF Refund (or Shared Risk) Programs?You've probably heard of IVF refund or shared risk programs. You pay a flat fee upfront, and they promise you a partial or full refund if you don't get pregnant. But what's the catch? Should you sign up? Learn here. How to Enter an IVF Contest or LotteryIf you've seen contests offering free IVF cycles, you may be wondering if they are a scam or the real deal. Some are real, some aren't. Another thing to consider: just because an IVF cycle is "free", doesn't mean you should take it. Learn more about entering IVF contests here. Borrowing from Family to Pay for IVFConsidering asking your parents to help you pay for IVF? This is a wonderful option for some couples and a potential minefield for others. Here's what you need to consider before asking mom and dad for a loan. 5 Tips for Affording the Cost of Fertility TreatmentsEspecially with IVF, infertility costs add up quickly. Considering that some couples may need up to three IVF cycles to get pregnant, plus the unfortunate fact that even high-tech IVF is no guarantee -- it’s enough to make your head spin. Here are five tips for making the high-cost treatments more tolerable. Where to Buy Clomid for the Best PriceClomid is a relatively inexpensive drug, but there's no reason to pay more than you have to. Here's how to save some cash. Is Crowdfunding for IVF or Other Fertility Treatments for You?Crowdfunding is a unique way to raise funds for IVF, but it is not for everyone. Here are four questions to ask yourself before you start a campaign. Tips for Crowdfunding Fertility TreatmentRunning a successful crowdfunding campaign for IVF or adoption takes work! Get loads of tips on how to make yours a success here. Step-by-Step Guide to Money ManagementInfertility treatment bills can pile up quickly. Before you start treatment, it’s best to look over your budget and figure out exactly what you can afford, and what you can cut back on, if you need. This step-by-step guide to managing your money, put together by About.com’s Guide to Frugal Living Erin Huffstetler, can be a huge help. Attain IVF ProgramsIVF is very expensive, and not guaranteed. IVF refund programs may help you save money on treatment, or at the very least, serve as an “insurance” if treatment fails. This site explains Attain IVF funding options. The ARC Affordable Payment Plan™If your doctor or fertility clinic is a member of the Advanced Reproductive Care, Inc. network, you may be eligible for the ARC Affordable Payment Plan™. This financial package offers a variety of monthly payment options, as well as a refund guarantee. (If you're not pregnant after treatment, you get your money back!) The program is not available, though, for all patients. Worth checking into!   Average Costs of Infertility TreatmentsYou already know that infertility treatment costs are high. But how much can you expect to pay? How much on average does one IVF cycle cost? What about IUI? This article from RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association sheds some light on the average cost of the more common treatments for infertility. What Is Financial Infertility?If you lack funds for testing or treatment, you are said to be suffering from financial infertility. Learn more about it here. Paying Off Fertility Treatment DebtDebt is a common outcome of infertility and fertility treatment. How can you get out from under the loans and credit cards? Get some tips here.