The South Beach DietWhat you need to know about The South Beach Diet: foods you can't eat, foods you can eat, and each Phase of the diet. Understand Phase 1 of The South Beach DietThe South Beach Diet is a popular diet plan that cuts carbs and encourages the consumption of healthy fats. This article will help you understand Phase 1 of the diet. Foods to Avoid on Phase One of the South Beach DietFoods to avoid on Phase One of The South Beach Diet include dark meat chicken, carrots, and corn. This list will advise you on more foods to avoid during this stage. Allowed Foods on Phase One of The South Beach DietAllowed foods Phase One of The South Beach Diet include certain meats, vegetables, nuts, and sugar-free treats. Find Your Diet: Is the South Beach Diet Right for You?Is The South Beach Diet right for you? Find out if you are willing to make the diet changes required by The South Beach Diet. 30 Things You Need to Know About The South Beach DietConsidering the South Beach Diet? These are 30 things you need to know before you get started. Tips for Eating Out on The South Beach DietEight tips for eating out while following any Phase of The South Beach Diet or for just eating healthier! Chinese, Indian, and Japanese Food on The South Beach DietLearn what menu options are best at Chinese, Indian, and Japanese restaurants if you are following The South Beach Diet. How You'll Eat During Phase 1Learn what you will be eating during Phase 1 South Beach Diet meals. South Beach Diet Packaged FoodsLearn more about Kraft Food's South Beach Diet line of frozen meals, meal replacement bars, and more. Mexican Food on The South Beach DietFind out what Mexican foods to eat -- and how -- when following The South Beach Diet. Phase 2 of The South Beach DietLearn more About Phase 2 of The South Beach Diet, where you can begin eating foods you eliminated during Phase 1. Phase 3 of The South Beach DietLearn more about the third Phase of The South Beach Diet, also known as the maintenance Phase. The South Beach Diet KitchenLearn how to get your kitchen pantry and fridge prepped for living the South Beach Diet way! What is the Glycemic Index?Learn more about The Glycemic Index, the science behind The South Beach Diet. Why was the South Beach Diet Created?Learn about why The South Beach Diet was created by Dr. Arthur Agatston. Foods to Eat on Phase 2These are the foods you can add back into your diet on Phase 2. Should I Stay on Phase 1 Longer?Find out who can stay on Phase 1 longer than two weeks. Why Do You Lose Belly Fat First?Why do you lose belly fat first on the SBD? How to Use the Glycemic IndexLearn what the Glycemic Index is, how foods are ranked, and how you can begin using it. When can Alcoholic Beverages be Consumed on the SBD?Find out if you can drink your beverage of choice during Phase 1 of the plan. The South Beach Diet Q&A: Dieting While PregnantShould this Mom-to-be follow The South Beach Diet to lose weight during her pregnancy? South Beach Diet Q&A: Nursing MomFind out if this new mom should go on the South Beach Diet. South Beach Diet Q&A:  Can I Stay on Phase 1 for Good?A reader wonders if her large weight loss goal means she should stay on Phase 1 permanently. South Beach Diet Q&A:  Meal Replacement Bars and Mini MealsFind out which meal replacement bars you can and can't use on The South Beach Diet. Why Do I Have Constipation and Gas?A reader asks about some unfavorable side effects many beginning South Beach dieters face. The South Beach Diet Q&A:  Do I have to do Phase 1 of The South Beach Diet?In this installment of The South Beach Diet question and answer series, a reader asks if she really needs to do Phase 1 of the plan. What if I Don't Have Much Weight to Lose?Should someone who doesn't have a lot of weight to lose skip Phase 1? The South Beach Diet A-ZIf it's related to The South Beach Diet, you can learn more about it here. Cravings on the South Beach Diet  The best way to deal with cravings when following the South Beach Diet. South Beach Q&A: How Often should I Weigh In?Find out how often you should weigh in on the South Beach Diet. Weighing in on the South Beach Diet  When and how often should you weigh in when losing weight on the South Beach Diet. South Beach Diet Q&A: Is it Expensive?  Do I have to Cook?A reader asks: Is The South Beach Diet as expensive as I think it Is? Do I have to cook?