10/27/03- The Death of a Pioneer

 Dr. John Lee died recently. He pioneered the use of natural progesterone and bio-identical hormones. Learn how to help continue his work, and leave a message of condolence.

10/22/03- Brown Skin? Here's What You Need to Know!

Susan Taylor, M.D. tells you what you, as a woman of color, need to know to acheive radiant, even-toned skin and healthy, fast-growing hair, and provides the facts and the guidance you need to look your best.

10/21/03- See No Fat! Hear No Fat! Eat No Fat?

Philip Lempert aka the Supermarket Guru talks about fat in America and provides a free online fat diary and a simple plan to help you lose fat for good!

09/23/03- Top 10 Causes of Vaginal Bleeding After Sex

If you have experienced vaginal bleeding after sex (post-coital bleeding) then you need to read this!

09/19/03- Quick Facts About Menopause and Hormones

Simple answers to many of your questions about menopause and hormone replacement therapy.

09/07/03- Tubal Ligation 101

What every woman should know about before and after tubal ligation.

09/05/03- ACOG Statement On Alternatives To Hysterectomy

The American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology recently issued this statement to clear up the confusion about who is or isn't a good candidate for hysterectomy alternatives for fibroid tumors and other conditions.

- FDA Approves Paxil CR (TM) For PMDD

Press release on the FDA approval of Paxil CR for the treatment of the physical and emotional symptoms of PMDD. Includes PMDD symptoms.

08/19/03 - A Lifetime of Fitness

Aging is unpreventable, but eating right and staying fit now can help to keep you feeling and looking good throughout your life.

08/14/03 - Making Sexually Safe Choices

Sexually transmitted diseases and infections such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, HIV/AIDS, and others can have devastating effects on your reproductive health, and in some cases, your life. Learn how to protect yourself and practice sexual safety.

08/06/03 - Girls Growing Up - Grooming and Hygiene

As girls grow into young women their grooming and personal hygiene needs change. Find out what you, your daughter, or the young lady in your life needs to know about growing up.

07/29/03 - Eating Peanuts Reduces Heart Disease Risk

Find out how eating just 1.5 ounces of peanuts or other nuts daily may significantly reduce your risk of heart disease.

- First Periods - Things That Affect Your Period

Your first periods may not be regular. Here are some factors that may play a role in irregular periods in teens.

07/12/03- 10 Things You Ought To Know About Birth Control

Ten common birth control myths are dispelled by the facts.

07/11/03- Birth Control Pills Recalled

Press release from Barr Labortories on the recall of Nortrell 7/7/7 28-day birth control pills.

06/23/03- Are You at Risk for Gestational Diabetes?

What you need to know about the signs and symptoms and how to lower your risk of infection.

06/17/03- Gallbladder Disease 101

 A one-stop resource for everything you need to know about gallstones and your gallbladder. From causes and symptoms to diagnosis, treatments, and prevention.

06/10/03- Monkeypox Virus

 What you need to know about the signs and symptoms and how to lower your risk of infection.

06/03/03- Understanding Medical Risks and Health News

 Learn to understand terminology used in health news reports.

05/08/03- Having a Pap Test and Pelvic Exam

 Find out what to expect when you visit the gynecologist.

05/06/03- Vaginal Bleeding During Pregnancy

 Learn about the causes of vaginal bleeding during pregnancy and find out what you should do if it occurs during your pregnancy.

04/30/03- Irritable Bowel Syndrome - IBS

 Irritable bowel syndrome or IBS is a painful condition that is often affected by stress. Learn about causes, symptoms, treatments, and more.

04/29/03- Sexual Assault Awareness - End the Silence

 A sexual assault survivor shares her personal story and tells others how to find help.

Stress during pregnancy can have harmful effects including miscarriage. Henry Lerner, M.D., OB/GYN, author of "Miscarriage: Why It Happens And How Best To Reduce Your Risks," provides techniques to help pregnant women cope with stress.

04/02/03- SARS - Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome

 Learn about the symptoms of SARS, treatments, transmission, and other important information about this deadly pneumonia-like virus.

03/25/03- Fibromyalgia FAQs

 Explore the symptoms of fibromyalgia, as well as what we know about causes, current diagnostic screens and treatments.

Eight out of ten Americans will experience back pain at some point during their lifetime. Learn about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of lower back pain.

03/11/03- What to Do When Your Back Is In Pain

 Options for treatment of back pain.

03/10/03- Risk of Ectopic Pregnancy After Tubal Sterilization

 Fact sheet that explores the risk of tubal pregnancy after surgical permanent sterilization.

03/06/03- Due Date Calculator

 A simple calculator to determine when your estimated date of delivery.

03/03/03- Ovulation Predictor

 An online ovulation calculator to help you predict when you will ovulate.

 

 02/25/03- Is My Period Abnormal?

 Every woman probably thinks her menstrual cycle is abnormal for one reason or another at some time in her reproductive life. Learn about the signs and symptoms of abnormal menstruation, abnormal menstrual cycles, and abnormal bleeding.

02/13/03- The Truth About Heart Disease In Women

 Did you know that 1 of 3 women die of heart disease? Sadly, only about one-third of women know that heart disease is the #1 killer of women in the United States; it's also the number one killer of men.

02/05/03- How Your Period Makes You Feel

 Some women feel fine during their periods, while others suffer from painful cramps, PMS, mood swings, and a host of other symptoms. Find out how you can lessen the symptoms of PMS and your period.

One of the things girls talk about most during puberty is getting their first periods. Find out what you need to

- Estrogens - Progestins Box Warning Update

 Learn about important new required warning labels for estrogen and progestin HRT treatments, revised and updated by Wyeth and the FDA.

- Questions and Answers for Estrogen and Estrogen with Progestin Therapies for Postmenopausal Women

 Answers to your questions about postmenopausal hormone therapy with estrogens and estrogen with progestin.

- FDA Provides New Advice to Postmenopausal Women

 The FDA offers new advice to postmenopausal women who are using or considering using estrogen and estrogen with progestin.

- FDA Approves New Labels for Estrogen and Estrogen with Progestin Therapies for Postmenopausal Women

 New labeling information following the Women's Health Initiative study.

- FDA Approves Prescribing Information for Postmenopausal Hormone Therapies

 Information for health care professionals who prescribe estrogens with or without progestins for women during menopause.

- Questions and Answers About the Women's Health Initiative

 Questions and answers about the Women's Health Initiative study and the use of estrogens and progestins in menopausal women.

- Mittelschmerz - The Pain Between Periods

 Have you ever experienced severe midcycle pain? Does pain and cramping seem to occur during ovulation? What you are experiencing may be Mittelschmerz. Find out what midcycle pain or cramps mean, how to take care of yourself, and when to see the doctor.

- New Year's Weight Loss Resolutions

 If you are planning to lose weight in the New Year, experts say "Think sleep." Find out how sleep loss affects your ability to lose or maintain weight loss.

- Postmenopausal Hormone Replacement Therapy

 Choosing whether or not to use postmenopausal hormone therapy or HRT can be one of the most important health decisions women face as they age. Learn what the most recent studies suggest about postmenopausal HRT.

- Cryosurgery Of The Cervix

 Find out what to expect before, during, and after cryosurgery or cryotherapy.

- Varicose Veins and Spider Veins

 Comprehensive FAQs about varicose veins and spider veins. Find out what you need to know about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.

- Cervical Cancer Screening

 The latest cervical cancer screening guidelines are explained. Find out when you need to have a Pap smear.