Abnormal Bleeding Menorrhagia

 Information about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of abnormal bleeding. Includes details about excessive menstruation and conditions such as dysfunctional uterine bleeding, and anovulatory bleeding, as well as treatments such as thermal balloon ablation, and alternative therapies.

Acne - Pimples - Zits

 Whether you call it acne, pimples, or zits, acne is not a pleasant experience. Explore acne causes and treatments, and find answers to your questions about acne.

Adenomyosis

 Covers causes, risk factors, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of this condition often associated with endometriosis.

Adhesions

 Details about pelvic and uterine adhesions, as well as general adhesions throughout the body. Covers causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment options, as well as prevention techniques.

Adoption Decisions Choices Options

 Learn what to expect when you choose adoption for your unplanned pregnancy. Discover the facts about open and closed adoptions, and find the answers you need to make the right decision for your baby

AIDS/HIV and Women

 Learn how this virus affects women. Discover facts about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment options, and find support for those affected by HIV and AIDS.

Alzheimer's Disease

 Details about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, prevention, and living with this disease.

Amenorrhea, Absence of Menstruation

 Resources that explore reasons for absence of menstruation. Includes treatment information and prevention tips.

Anal Itch Pruritus Ani

 Information about causes, symptoms, and treatments for persistent, annoying itchiness of the anus.

Anemia, Low Iron Levels

 Information about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatments, and prevention of anemia.

Anorexia Nervosa 

 Information about anorexia nervosa. Learn about signs of anorexia, and find out about treatments for this eating disorder.

Autoimmune Disorders

 Autoimmune disorders are explored from the different types of conditions considered autoimmune to the symptoms, treatments, and alternatives.

Backaches - Lower Back Pain - Treatments

 Backaches - lower back pain are explored from diagnosis to treatments and prevention.

Bacterial Vaginosis

 Bacterial vaginosis is one of the most common causes of vaginitis and is generally sexually transmitted. Bacterial vaginosis causes a characteristic grey discharge with a fishy odor and is treated with antibiotics. Good vaginal hygiene, the best way to prevent bacterial invasion, is discussed.

Barrier Methods of Contraception

 Information on barrier methods of contraception, including the male condom, female condom, vaginal diaphragm, vaginal sponge, cervical cap, contraceptive film, foam and jelly.

Bartholin's Gland Cysts 

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of these cysts that affect the Bartholin's glands.

Bell's Palsy, Partial Facial Paralysis

 Learn about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of this condition.

Birth Control Contraceptives Choices

 Discover your options in birth control and pregnancy prevention from the pill to non-hormonal methods.

Birth Control Methods

 All forms of birth control available in the U.S. are discussed here. Descriptions of each method and discussions of the advantages, disadvantages and potential complications of their use are provided to help women make informed choices.

Birth Control Methods

 Answers to questions about birth control methods. Find out which type of contraceptive is best for you. Learn about the Pill, minipill, IUDs, implantable and injectable methods of birth control, as well as side effects, risks, and other important information.

Birth Control Questions and Answers

 Answers to your questions about birth control or contraceptive choices. Find out which birth control method is right for you, and learn about your options, side effects and risks of various contraceptives.

Bladder Control And Women

 Bladder control problems can strike women at many times during their lives. Learn about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of loss of urinary control in women. Learn how to control your bladder before it controls you!

Bleeding After Sex

 Information about possible causes for post coital bleeding.

Bleeding Between Periods, Metrorrhagia

 Facts about midcycle bleeding. Covers causes, treatments, prevention tips, and other useful information.

Bleeding Disorders - Questions - Answers

 Bleeding disorders exist when it hard for a person to stop bleeding. Find out what you need to know about bleeding disorders.

Breast Cancer

 Information about causes and risk factors, prevention, symptoms, diagnosis, and treament, as well as support groups and other useful material for women and others affected by breast cancer.

Breast Cancer

 Information about breast cancer risk assessment, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. What to do when you discover a lump in your breast. How to assess your risk of familial breast cancer through genetic testing.

Breast Enlargement, Breast Augmentation

 Covers various types of breast augmentation including implants, plastic surgery procedures and recovery, and before and after photos.

Breast Health and Disease

 Maintenance of healthy breasts, breastfeeding, diagnosis and treatment of breast disease including mastitis and breast cancers, breast augmentation and reduction surgery

Breast Health

 Covers breast self-exam, mammography, and information about keeping your breasts healthy.

Breast Infections, Nipple Discharge

 Information about causes, symptoms, and treatments of breast infection and nipple discharges. Cover mastitis, inflammations, plugged ducts, and other issues.

Breast Lumps

 Breast lumps are scary when you find them; however, they are often caused by normal changes and completely benign. Learn about types of breast lumps, breast cancer risk, what to do when you find a breast lump, and breast biopsy.

Breast Reduction, Reduction Mammaplasty

 Provides before and after photos, details about procedures and recovery, and other useful information.

Breastfeeding

 The decision to breastfeed your baby is one of the most important decisions you can make about the future health of your baby and yourself. You will find information here about preparing to breastfeed, the benefits of breastfeeding, getting started and possible complications you may encounter.

Bulimia

 Information about bulimia. Find out what causes bulimia, learn to recognize the symptoms, and find out about treatment.

Cancer and Women Cancer Types A-Z

 Links relevant to risk factors, prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and survival of breast cancer.

Cancer Diet Nutrition Eating

 Facts about diet, nutrition, and eating during cancer treatment. Information about chemotherapy, radiation treatment, and alternative cancer treatments.

Cancer Prevention Symptoms Risks

 Details about prevention of cancer, cancer symptoms, and risk factors for developing cancer. Find out if you are at risk of cancers from breast cancer to ovarian and uterine cancer.

Cancer Support

 Information about support groups for patients and others affected by cancer, eating and nutrition, coping and surviving, and other related resources.

Cancer

 Extensive resources cover various types of cancer, treatments including chemo and radiation, support groups, and other relevant information for patients and others affected by cancer.

Carpal Tunnel Syndrome

 Covers causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. Includes information about ergonomics.

Cervical Cancer Questions and Answers

 Cervical cancer is explored through questions and answers that cover signs and symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and risks.

Cervical Cancer

 Facts about cervical cancer that includes causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatments, prevention, and risk factors.

Cervical Conditions - Cervix 

 Cervical conditions from dysplasia to polyps and cervical cancer are described and discussed. Find out what your doctor really means when he talks about your cervix.

Cervical Dysplasia

 Details about the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of cervical dysplasia or CIN.

Cervical Erosion

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of cervical erosion.

Cervical Polyps

 Facts about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of cervical polyps.

Cervicitis

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of cervicitis or infections and inflamations of the cervix.

Chlamydia - Symptoms - Treatments

 Information about chylamydia, the signs and symptoms, treatments and potential problems.

Chronic Pelvic Pain

 Discover the causes of chronic pelvic pain, and learn about symptoms, diagnosis, treatments, and coping with chronic pelvic pain and cramps.

Colds

 Resources for dealing with the common cold. Covers symptoms, treaments, and prevention, as well as other useful information.

Common Uterine Conditions

 Information about common uterine conditions and diseases including heavy bleeding, fibroid tumors, endometriosis, pelvic pain, and hormonal imbalances. Provides extensive information about treatments including hysterectomy.

Compulsive Overeating

 Information about compulsive overeating. Learn how to find treatment for compulsive overeating.

Condoms - Rubbers - Jimmy Hats

 Condoms information from how they can save your life to preventing pregnancy, and providing protection from STDs. Learn what kind of condom is best, how to handle condoms, whether spermicides should be used with condoms, and other important facts about condoms, a.k.a. rubbers and jimmy hats.

Cramps Menstrual Dysmenorrhea

 Resources to help you reduce menstrual cramps.

Crohn's Disease

 Facts about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of Crohn's disease.

Cytomegalovirus CMV

 Discover the facts about CMV and its affect on women during pregnancy and throughout life.

Depression

 Information about the causes, diagnosis, treamtment and prevention of depression in women. Includes facts about risk factors and other useful material.

Dermatology Skin Care acne eczema

 Dermatology and skin information including skin conditions such as acne, eczema, and tanning issues.

Diabetes

 Facts about diabetes in women. Covers causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, prevention, and risk factors.

Diagnostic Tests and Procedures

 Diagnostic procedures and tests used in gynecology and obstetrics including routine annual exams, Pap smear, mammography, prenatal testing, infertility tests, cancer screening, serum hormone and bone density measurements, and diagnostic surgical procedures.

Dieting, Weight Loss

 Resources to help you lose those unwanted pounds permanently.

Digestive Diseases - Digestive Disorders

 Digestive diseases and disorders are explored and explained from Chron's disease to diverticulitis and gallstones, as well as other conditions affecting your digestive system.

Diverticulitis Diverticulosis

 Information about the causes, risks, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of diverticulitis and other diverticular diseases.

Domestic Violence

 Domestic violence is one of the most signifcant health risks to women. Learn how to prevent domestic violence, and how to find treatment and support if you are a victim.

Dry Eyes causes symptoms treatments

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of dry eyes, as well as prevention tips.

Eczema - Atopic Dermatis

 All you need to know about eczema a.k.a atopic dermatis. Learn about the causes of eczema, as well as how it is diagnosed and various treatment options.

Emergency Contraceptives

 Discover how to protect yourself from an unplanned pregnancy after unprocted sexual intercourse.

Endometrial Polyps - Uterine Polyps 

 Do endometrial or uterine polyps mean cancer? Discover the facts from causes, to symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment, of endometrial polyps.

Endometriosis

 Discover the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment options for endometriosis.

Endometritis

 Information about causes, risk factors, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment options.

Epilepsy, Seizure Disorders

 Resources about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of seizure disorders in women.

Excess Hair, Hirsutism

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of excess hair. Includes self-help tips, as well as medical treatments.

Exercise

 Exercise suggestions and tips to help you get the most out of your workout and stay healthy for life!

Female Infertility

 There are a number of different causes of infertility in the female. They can include anatomical abnormalities, chromosomal defects and endocrine insufficiencies.

Feminine Protection Products

 A wide variety of feminine protection products now available for use during menstrual flow include many different styles, sizes and absorbencies of sanitary napkins, pads and tampons, as well as menstrual cups. The use of tampons has been associated with increased risk of TSS (toxic shock syndrome).

Fertility Treatments

 Information on the lastest technological advances in the treatment for infertility, including in vitro fertilization, artificial insemination and other forms of assisted reproductive technology.

FGM, Female Genital Mutilation

 Resources that cover statistics, procedures, news, and political activism to stop the practice of female genital mutilation.

Fibrocystic Breast Disease

 Discover the causes of fibrocystic breast disease, and learn about prevention, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment options.

Fibroid Tumors Uterine Fibroid Tumors

 Uterine fibroid tumors are explored through facts that cover symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment options.

Fibromyalgia

 Learn about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of fibromyalgia.

Fitness - Diet - Exercise - Nutrition

 Fitness and health for women is explored through diet and nutrition, as well as exercise and lifestyle.

Flu, Influenza

 Information about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of the flu.

Fluid Retention - Edema - Bloating 

 Information about fluid retention (edema). Learn about causes and treatments for fluid retention or bloating.

Free Stuff

 Free health and beauty products and samples for women, including free stuff for new and expectant parents.

Freebies & Special Offers

 Free or almost free offers for women's health and pregnancy-related information, software, products or services.

Gall Bladder Disease

 Details about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of gall bladder diseases.

Genetics

 Information about genetic testing, and the role genetics play in your health, as well as the human genome project.

Glossaries 

 Glossaries are lists of words with brief definitions and related information. Look here for easy-to-understand explanations of any medical terms you are likely to encounter in Obstetrics and Gynecology.

Gonorrhea

 Gonorrhea is a sexually-transmitted bacterial disease that can cause loss of fertility, arthritis, and heart problems. Gonorrhea in women can cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), which increases the risk of ectopic pregnancy. Pregnant women with gonorrhea infections are at risk of preterm labor and stillbirth. Learn how to prevent, diagnose or treat gonorrhea.

GYN Exam, Pelvic Exam

 Learn what happens and what to expect at your annual gynecology examination.

Gyn Surgical Procedures

 Common gynecologic surgeries and information you'll need to make informed decisions. Includes hysterectomy, oophorectomy, fibroidectomy, pelvic floor repair and other laparoscopic surgeries.

Gynecologic Cancers

 Cancers that originate in the reproductive tract, including vulvar, vaginal, cervical, uterine, endometrial, tubal, and ovarian cancers

Hair Loss

 Learn about hair loss in women. Discover the causes, symptoms, and treatment options for women experiencing hair loss.

Headaches, Migraines and Others

 Information about headaches from migraines to tension, stress, menstrual, and others. Learn about causes, symptoms, diagnostic procedures, and traditional and alternative treatments.

Health Quizzes, Calculators, Tools

 Interactive health quizzes designed to help assess your health risks and provide disease prevention tips.

Hepatitis causes symptoms treatments

 Resources that cover hepatitis from A to G. Includes material about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.

Herbs for Women's Health

 Discover when and how to use herbal remedies and learn how to choose the correct one for your symptoms for safe and effective treament and relief of your symptoms for everything from PMS to Menopause.

Herpes genital

 Learn about the transmission of this sexually transmitted disease. Get the facts about symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment. Find out how to prevent becoming infected.

Herpes Simplex Viruses (HSV)

 Genital herpes is a common sexually transmitted disease. Learn about the symptoms, diagnosis and latest treatments available for this family of viruses.

High Blood Pressure - Hypertension 

 Hypertension or high blood pressure can lead to serious health consequences if left untreated. Find out what you need to know about high blood pressure including diet tips, facts about medications for hypertension, and other useful material.

HIV/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

 Information on living with HIV/AIDS, new treatments and screening processes.

Home Medical Tests

 Information about do-it-yourself home medical tests such as pregnancy tests, and saliva testing for hormone levels, among others.

Hormone Replacement Therapy HRT Hormones

 Hormone replacement therapy information includes traditional, and alternative HRT. Covers natural hormones, estrogen replacement therapy, as well as progesterone vs. progestins, testosterone, DHEA, and others for perimenopausal and postmenopausal women.

Hormone Replacement Therapy

 For many women reaching menopause, the choice of whether to start hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is a complicated one. Learn the facts about how estrogen and progesterone can reduce menopausal symptoms, provide bone-preserving and cardiovascular benefits and protect you from gynecologic cancers and cardiovascular disease.

Hormones , Drugs & Herbal Medicines

 Hormonal therapies and drugs commonly used in obstetrics and gynecology for contraception, abortion, treatment of infertility, deficiencies, labor management, pregnancy complications, diseases and pain management. Includes steroid and peptide hormones and related drugs, tocolytics, antifungals, antibiotics, tocolytics, anti-inflammatory agents, narcotics and commonly used herbal medicines.

Hormones 

 Reproductive hormones are vitally important to human sexual development and the maintenance of reproductive health across the lifespan. Learn about the intricate interplay of brain neurohormones, pituitary gonadotropins and the gonadal steroids that underlie the menstrual cycle and pregnancy. Discover how hormonal imbalances lead to dysfunction or disease.

Hot Flashes

 Hot flashes and menopause information. Uncover the facts about hot flashes, and learn what you can do to relieve the flushes that often accompany menopause.

Hysterectomy and Alternatives

 Hysterectomy decision making resources, and support groups. Covers reasons for having a hysterectomy, and alternative treatments and procedures.

Hysterectomy and Oophorectomy

 Hysterectomy is the surgical removal of the uterus. In salpingectomy, the fallopian tubes are removed and in an oophorectomy, the ovaries are excised. Through the use of laparoscopic techniques, these lower abdominal surgeries in most instances can be performed transvaginally, eliminating the need for an abdominal incision.

IBS Irritable Bowel Syndrome

 Discover the causes of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Learn about symptoms, diagnosis, alternative and traditional treatments, and prevention of irritable bowel syndrome.

Infertility Tests

 Tests that are part of the infertility work-up to determine the root cause of the problem.

Infertility

 Information on the causes of female and male infertility, the diagnostic tests and the various treatments used to achieve a successful pregnancy.

Infertility

 Information about causes, symptoms, diagnositic procedures, and treatment options for women with fertility issues.

Injectable/Implantable Contraceptives

 Injectable birth control can be popular for those wanting something between permanent and short term birth control. Including Depo Provera and Norplant.

Insomnia

 Learn about causes and treatments for insomnia. Covers traditional and alternative therapies to help you get more sleep and beat insomnia.

Intrauterine Devices

 Information on the intrauterine device (IUD), its efficacy and safety.

Labor & Delivery

 Issues related to the perinatal period, including birth plans, delivery options (spontaneous vaginal delivery, VBAC, induction or cesarean birth), choice of comfort measures (natural childbirth or epidural and other anesthesia), as well as procedures and tests of fetal well-being.

Lichen Sclerosus - Vulva - Anus 

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of lichen sclerosis. This painful skin disorder is often associated with vulvodynia, and commonly affects the vulva or anus in women.

Lifestyle

 Resources to help you learn how your lifestyle and emotional well-being can impact your overall general health.

Liposuction

 Information about fat removal through liposuction. Includes deatails about finding the right surgeon, various liposuction techniques, recovery, and other useful material.

Male Infertility

 Causes of infertility in the male can include anatomical abnormalities, chromosomal defects, and inadequate sperm count.

Menopause and Insomnia

 Menopause,insomnia, sleep apnea, and other sleep disturbances often go hand-in-hand. Learn about the causes of menopausal insomnia and sleep problems, and find out about traditional and alternative treatments.

Menopause Perimenopause

 Information about perimenopause and menopause symptoms, treatments, and other useful material.

Menopause

 Menopause is the cessation of menstrual cycles and occurs in most women between 45 and 55 years of age. Learn about the "change of life," including symptoms that signal the transition of perimenopause, the pros and cons of hormone replacement therapy, finding emotional support, and finding relief from symptoms using alternative therapies.

Menstrual Disorders

 Menstrual disorders include amenorrhea (lack of menstruation), dysmenorrhea (painful periods), irregular cycles, menorrhagia (excessive menstrual bleeding), polycystic ovaries, endometriosis, fibroids and premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Learn about the causes, symptoms, surgical and hormonal treatments for these and other menstrual abnormalities.

Menstruation Your Period

 Mentruation information about normal and abnormal menstrual cycles. Learn the basics about your menstrual cycle, and know what to expect from your monthly periods.

Menstruation

 Information on menstruation from your first period to your last. Tips on keeping track of your menstrual cycle either to get pregnant or avoid it. Diagnosis and treatment of menstrual cycle-related conditions.

Mental Health and Women

 Mental health issues that affect women are explored and explained from depression, anxiety, adoption issues, eating disorders, ADD, OCD, and more, you'll find your answers here.

Mid-Cycle Ovulation Pain

 Resources that discuss mittelschmerz, mid-cycle or ovulation pain. Learn what you can do about this very real and common midcycle abdominal pain.

Miscarriage - Spontaneous Abortion

 Miscarriage signs and symptoms, as well as causes,prevention tips, and support groups for women whose pregnancies are threatened by (and women who have experienced) spontaneous abortion.

Morning Sickness

 Morning sickness is often the first sign of pregnancy. Explore traditional, alternative, and self-help treatments and prevention techniques.

Multiple Sclerosis

 Multiple Sclerosis presents many symptoms and debate regarding treatment is rampant. Learn about MS causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment.

Natural Family Planning

 Natural family planning includes the rhythm method of timing intercourse endorsed by the Catholic Church, as well as the use of a variety of methods and devices to gauge the most fertile days of the menstrual cycle.

NFP, Natural Family Planning

 Resources for those who want to practice natural family planning methods to avoid unplanned pregnancies, includes calendar rhythm, the Billings Ovulation Method, and lactational amenorrhea (LAM)

Night Sweats

 A look at night sweats in menopause. Learn about traditional and alternative treatments for night sweats.

Nutrition

 Information about the special nutritional requirements of women.

Online Support

 Online support offers you advice about where to obtain support health services you need.

Oral Contraceptives

 An overview of the oral contraceptives currently available in the U.S., including options, risks, benefits, and guides to their use.

Osteoporosis

 Osteoporosis is reduced structural integrity of the skeleton which develops slowly over a period of years during which there is either inadequate calcium intake or weight-bearing exercise, an endocrine deficiency or a combination of factors. Post-menopausal women are at increased risk of osteoporosis and complications resulting from bone fractures.

Osteoporosis, Bone Loss

 Information about osteoporosis or bone loss that includes causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, as well as risk factors.

Ovarian Cancer

 Ovarian cancer is a difficult disease to diagnose in its early stages due to the lack of distinct early symptoms or a reliable marker for screening.

Ovarian Cancer

 Information about the causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of ovarian cancer. Learn if you are at risk of developing ovarian cancer.

Ovarian Conditions - Ovary

 Ovarian conditions are explored and explained from polycystic ovarian syndrome to ovarian cysts and ovulation pain.

Ovarian Cysts

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treamtment of ovarian cysts, as well as prevention tips and other useful material.

Palpitations - Rapid Heartbeats 

 Learn what palpitations or rapid heartbeats indicate. Find out about possible causes and treatments for palpitations.

Pap Smears

 Information about Pap smear procedures, and treatments for abnormal Pap smear results.

PCOS, Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome 

 Resources for understanding the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of polycystic ovarian syndome (PCOS).

Pelvic Floor Problems

 The pelvic floor is very important to your needs. Not only will it help you stay in good sexual health but it can help prevent prolapses later in life.

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease

 Information on this silent epidemic that can lead to pain and infertility if undiscovered.

Pelvic Pain

 Pelvic pain can result from a number of abnormal conditions, including pelvic inflammatory disease, pelvic floor prolapse, endometriosis, endometritis, myomas and other tumors in the pelvic area, ectopic pregnancy.

Physician Locators

 Find a doctor who specializes in whatever you or your family needs. Includes all specialties from OB/GYNs to pediatricians, gastroenterologist, oncologists, pyschiatrists, and others.

PID, Pelvic Inflammatory Disease

 Potentially life- saving facts about PID or Pelvic Inflammatory Disease which covers causes, symptoms, prevention and treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID).

Plastic Surgery

 Discover plastic surgery resources for women considering procedures from face lifts to liposuction, breast reduction and breast enlargement.

PMS, Premenstrual Syndrome

 Information about symptoms, treatments, and ways to reduce PMS.

Postpartum Issues & Options

 Postpartum issues include pain management, potential complications during recovery from childbirth and options, such as contraception.

Pregnancy 

 Information about the basics of pregnancy, including conception, prenatal care, tests and procedures, complications and special circumstances during pregnancy leading up to labor.

Pregnancy

 Discover what to expect during pregnancy. Provides details about pregnancy symptoms and testing, fetal developement, over 30, exercise, nutrition, and obstetrical ultrasound.

Premenstrual Syndrome 

 Premenstrual syndrome is a cluster of cyclic physiological and emotional symptoms that affect women during the luteal phase (after ovulation) and generally subside at the onset of menstruation.

Prenatal Tests

 Any tests performed to confirm pregnancy, estimate gestational age or fetal size, screen for genetic abnormalities or to assess fetal well-being are included here. Includes routine tests of maternal health status, such as glucose tolerance test for gestational diabetes, as well as any blood or urine tests.

Professional Resources

 Sites of interest to professionals in women's health, including links to professional societies, credentialling organizations, journals, publishers, news sources and databases.

Puberty

 Puberty is a particularly sensitive time for the developing young adult, their families and community. Here is information designed to make the transition smooth for all involved.

Research & News

 Listing of links to news releases and research findings related to obstetrics and gynecology, including press releases and position papers from ACOG, AWHONN, ACNM and other women's health-related professional organizations.

Restless Legs Syndrome

 Information about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of restless legs syndrome. Find out why your legs jerk and feet move involuntarily and how hormones may play a role.

Routine Gynecological Exams & Screenings

 Tests that are recommended as part of the routine annual gynecological exam for all women of childbearing age and older. Includes mammograms which may be performed at less frequent intervals.

Senior Health for Women

 Senior health explores the many conditions that affect aging women. Includes Alzeheimer's diesease, osteoporosis, menopause, and other related issues.

Sexual Dysfunction

 Information about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of female sexual dysfunction.

Sexuality

 Information about female sexuality and the influence of hormones on sexuality during pregnancy, menopause, hysterectomy, and other times. Find out how to have a better sex life and enjoy being a woman.

Single Parenting

 Resources to help women facing an unplanned pregnancy understand and cope with single parenting. Includes child support collection, day care resources, and other issues for unmarried mothers.

Soy and Hormones, Foods, Isoflavones

 Details about benefits of soy isoflavones for reducing hot flashes in menopause, as well as prevention of heart disease, cancer, and bone loss.

STDs, Sexually Transmitted Diseases

 Sexually transmitted diseases fully explained. Includes information about the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases - STDs, and facts about symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment, as well as prevention.

Sterilization

 Permanent forms of birth control include tubal ligation for women and vasectomy for men. You will find information about the pros and cons of each procedure, how to determine whether you are a good candidate, and how to try to get the procedure reversed later if you change your mind.

Sterilization, Tubal Ligation, Vasectomy

 Details about permanent methods of contraception. Covers tubal ligation and vasectomy. Find out what's right for you as a couple.

Stress, Stress Management

 Learn about stress and its causes, symptoms, and treatment. Find out how to prevent and manage stress, and discover if you are at risk.

Stroke - Brain Attack - Symptoms - Risks

 Stroke signs and symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention information.

Surgery & Procedures for Women

 Details about surgical procedures for women. Covers hysterectomy, colposcopy, colonoscopy, myomectomy, laparoscopy, tubal ligation, and other surgery and procedures.

Surgical Menopause

 Information about surgical menopause that occurs when a woman undergoes a hysterectomy with bilateral oophorectomy. Learn about the sudden symptoms of menopause that occur after surgery, as well as traditional and alternative treatments for surgical menopause.

Syphilis

 Information on the testing and treatment of syphilis.

Tay-Sachs Disease

 Information about Tay-Sachs disease, which usually affects those of Jewish decent. Covers causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment.

Teen Health - Acne - Pregnancy - Teens

 Teen health information from acne to menstruation, unplanned pregnancy, and peer pressure.

Tendonitis

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of tendonitis.

Tests, Diagnostic Procedures, Lab Work

 Information about the diagnostic procedures and lab work your physican may order.

Thyroid Disease

 Thyroid Disease information including Hypothyroidism and Hyperthyroidism. Covers thyroid disease causes, symptoms, and treatments.

Tinnitus, Ringing Ears

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treament, and prevention of tinnitus or ringing in the ears.

Trichomonas Vaginalis

 This protozoal parasite causes a type of vaginitis called trichomoniasis, one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases. Signs and symptoms, prevention and treatment are discussed.

TSS, Toxic Shock Syndrome

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of toxic shock syndrome, and the role of tampons.

Unplanned Pregnancy

 Discover your options when faced with an unplanned pregnancy including abortion, adoption, and parenting your baby, as well as how to get through pregnancy.

Urinary System Diseases and Conditions

 Information about urinary tract infections, incontinence, and bladder cancer, as well as other conditions that affect the urinary system.

Uterine Cancer, Endometrial Cancer

 Facts about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of uterine cancer. Find out if you are at risk of developing uterine or endometrial cancer.

Uterine Health - Uterine Conditions

 Uterine diseases and conditions are explored and explained from endometriosis to fibroid tumors and uterine prolapse, as well as other conditions affecting the uterus.

Uterine Prolapse

 Information about uterine prolapse. Find out the causes, symptoms, diagnostic procedures, and treatment options for prolapsed uterus.

Vaginal Cancer

 Resources for learning about vaginal cancer including symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, prevention, and risk factors, among other issues.

Vaginal Discharge

 Information about normal vaginal discharges, excessive vaginal discharge, causes, treatment, and prevention of vaginal infections and related discharges.

Vaginal Dryness, Vaginal Lubrication

 Vaginal dryness and lubrication are explored with information about relieving sexual discomfort and pain caused by this condition.

Vaginal Health - Vaginal Conditions

 Vaginal health is explored from vaginal dryness and itching to vaginal discharges and infections. Discover what every woman needs to know about vaginal health.

Vaginal Itching

 Resources for learning about the symptoms, causes, diagnosis, and treatment of vaginal itching.

Vaginal Urinary Tract Bladder Infections

 Resources for learning about infections in women. Includes urinary tract infections, and vaginal infections, among others.

Varicose Veins

 Varicose veins, spider veins, and other vein abnormalities are explored from symptoms to diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.

Vulvar Cancer

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of vulvar cancer. Learn if you are at risk of developing vulvar cancer.

Vulvodynia

 Information about the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of vulvodynia. Find out where to get support for vulvodynia.

Women's Health Issues Blogs and Weblogs

 Blogs and weblogs about women's health issues, health news and information, sexual health, and reproductive health issues.

Women's Health News

 Women's health news and issues that you need to know about as it happens. These women's health news sources keep you current on the latest women's health issues and current medical studies and health guidelines.

Yeast Infections in Women

 Yeast infections are one of the most common ailments of women. Learn how to prevent infections, get them diagnosed when experiencing symptoms for the first time, and get treatment that is effective.

Yeast Infections

 Facts about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of yeast infections. Provides information about recurrent yeast infections and how to lower your risk.