Learn about mental health issues including depression, anxiety, and suicide, among other psychiatric illnesses.Mental health issues often affect women differently than men. Learn the facts that women need to know about mental illnesses including ADD or ADHD, depression, anxiety, and suicide, as well as other relavent psychiatric conditions.

Planning Stress Free Holidays

The Holiday season is often a time of stress. Learn how you can forget the holiday stress of past holiday seasons using these tips to keep yourself mentally healthy at this time of year.

SAD - Real and Treatable

Seasonal affective disorder or SAD explored. Covers SAD symptoms, causes, treatment, and prevention tips. Discover how to treat SAD, as well as what you can do to lessen it's severity.

Depression and Women

More than 17 million Americans experience depression every year -- over half of them are women. In fact, women experience depression twice as often as men and they often experience it earlier, longer, and more severely.

Suicide and Suicidal Behavior

Important information that provides an overview of suicide and suicidal behavior. Covers causes, symptoms, treatment, and prevention. Related links provide information about suicide in children and the elderly.

How Stress Affects Your Health

Look around. One of ten people you see at work, at the store, and wherever you go in your daily life is over stressed at any given moment. Scientists agree that stress causes actual chemical changes in the brain, and these changes can influence the state of your health.

Menopause and Mental Health

A popular myth pictures the menopausal woman shifting from raging, angry moods into depressive, doleful slumps with no apparent reason or warning. However, a study by psychologists at the University of Pittsburgh suggests that menopause does not cause unpredictable mood swings, depression, or even stress in most women.

Depression Drug Helps Women With Low Sex Drive

Low sex drive affects at least one out of five women in the United States. Learn how low sexual desire may be sucessfully treated with a drug commonly used to treat depression.

Impulsiveness and ADHD

Impulsiveness is one of the key symptoms of ADHD. It is reacting rather than acting. Those with problems with impulsiveness may blurt out answers, even when inappropriate, make quick decisions without considering the consequences and find themselves spending money they don’t have.

Women and ADD/ADHD

Even though the past decade has shown much research on ADD/ADHD, there is still a gap in information available for women with ADD. Much information is written on children with ADD, parenting children with ADD and general information on adults with ADD, but little is written on the specific problems women face. Women may have a more difficult time managing their ADD for several reasons.

When Housewives (and others) Are Desperate

Toni Raiten-D'Antonio, author of The Velveteen Principles, discusses how to be real, and how to find the key to happiness. He provides tips to help you as you strive to be Real in a world that makes us all feel a little desperate sometimes.

How Has Stress Affected Your Health?

Share your story about the affect stress has had on your health. Help others who may be experiencing stress learn about possible health related complications. See submissions