Here's a summary of gluten-free foods, questionable foods and foods that aren't safe (see the preceding pages for more detail): • Fruits and Vegetables: All fresh products should be safe. Watch out for pre-packaged fruit and vegetable products (including frozen and canned goods), which may contain gluten or be subject to cross-contamination. • Meats and Fish: Fresh meats, poultry and fish with no added ingredients are safe if they're kept away from gluten cross-contamination at the store. Pre-packaged products, such as hams, bacon, sausages and lunch meats, may or may not contain gluten. Several manufacturers label processed meat products gluten-free. • Milk and Dairy Products: Fresh plain milk, butter, plain yogurt, fresh eggs and many cheeses are gluten-free. Some other products found in the dairy section, such as tapioca pudding, are gluten-free. Some ice creams are gluten-free and some are not — you'll need to check ingredients. • Breads, Snacks, Cereals and Pastas: With few exceptions, anything you buy in these categories should be specifically labeled "gluten-free." Most grocery stores carry a few of these gluten-free staples, but you may find the best selection online. • Prepared Foods: Only buy frozen dinners or frozen pizzas specifically marked "gluten-free" — some larger supermarkets carry a nice selection. Many canned soups contain gluten, so check the ingredients. Ethnic food sections in supermarkets frequently contain some prepared foods that are gluten-free. • Baking Mixes and Supplies: Any baking mix you purchase should be specifically labeled "gluten-free." Most baking supplies, such as baking soda, sugar and cocoa, are considered gluten-free, but you should check ingredients to make certain. • Condiments, Sauces and Spices: You'll need to check ingredients and/or call manufacturers in most cases to determine what's gluten-free and what's not. Heinz ketchup and French's yellow mustard are considered gluten-free, and there are multiple gluten-free options for tomato sauce and salad dressing. Don't buy soy sauce unless it's specifically labeled "gluten-free." • Coffee, Tea, Soda, Fruit Drinks and Alcohol: Unflavored coffee and plain black or green tea should be gluten-free, but flavored varieties may not be. The most popular sodas in the United States are considered gluten-free. Juice made from 100% fruit should be gluten-free, but fruit drinks made from fruit plus other ingredients may not be. You'll need to buy gluten-free beer, since conventional beer contains gluten. Wine is gluten-free (unless you're super-sensitive). Many people react to gluten grain-derived alcoholic beverages.