Birth control options and information for women. Covers types of birth control such as the birth control pill, the birth control patch, and other contraceptive choices. Includes birth control benefits and side effects, and other birth control information.

Do You Have Period Problems?

Most women experience period problems at least once during their reproductive years. Learn about abnormal periods, PMS, and other period problems.

Going to the Gynecologist 101

When to have your first gynecology exam and Pap test, as well as when to see your Ob/Gyn for subsequent pelvic exams. Covers abnormal Pap test results, colposcopy, and numerous other reproductive health diseases, conditions, and tests, as well as what things are important to discuss with your gynecologist.

Why Contraceptives Sometimes Fail

A look at reasons that contraceptives may fail to provide prevention against unplanned pregnancy. Learn what causes contraceptive failure so that you can prevent unplanned pregnancy.

The Girls Growing Up Workshop

A free 14 day class designed especially for girls dealing with the changes and challenges of puberty, menstruation, acne, and all the health issues that come with being a young wom

Can I Get Pregnant While Breastfeeding?

A look at how breastfeeding may offer protectiong against pregnancy. Learn whether the Lactational Amenorrhea Method or LAM is an effective natural contraceptive.

The Menstrual Cycle is a Vital Sign

Is menstrual suppression a healthy form of birth control? Learn what Paula J. Adams Hillard, M.D. told Women's Issues Guide Nikki Katz about menstrual suppression in a recent interview.

Directory of Hormonal Contraceptives

Presented by the International Planned Parenthood Federation, this is an huge and easy-to-search directory of types of contraceptives, such as oral contraceptives or The Pill. Includes with each listing the country the contraceptive is found in, manufacturer information, and hundreds of countries around the world which are searchable to determine which contraceptives are sold in each country.

Tubal Ligation Reversal

More than 650,000 women undergo tubal ligation in the United States annually, thus ending their ability to have children. What happens when circumstances change? Is tubal ligation reversal possible? Learn if reversal will enable pregnancy, or stop post tubal ligation syndrome.

The Other Benefits of Oral Contraceptives

Sure, oral contraceptives prevent pregnancy when used consistently, but did you know that the Pill has other health benefits? Find out why your health care provider might prescribe oral contraceptives to women who are concerned about contraception. And discover how the Pill might improve other health problems.

5 Reasons for Contraceptive Failure

Fifty-three percent of unplanned pregnancies occur in women who are using contraceptives. Learn five common reasons why birth control might fail, and what you can do to increase the effectiveness of your birth control method.

Contraceptive Choices

A detailed look at your choices in contraceptives. Learn which type of birth control is the right choice for you.

Devices and Desires - A History of Contraceptives in America

Andrea Tone discusses her mesmerizing new book Devices and Desires: A History of Contraceptives in America.

Contraceptive FAQs

Questions and answers about birth control from the Pill to the IUD.

What is the best birth control?

The answer to that question depends on your definition of "best." The choice of birth control depends on factors such as a person's health, frequency of sexual activity, number of partners, and desire to have children in the future. Take a look at your birth control choices, and compare success rates.