 

But two important studies  -- a 2007 study published in the journal Clinical Endocrinology, and a follow-up larger randomized trial reported in the December 2010 issue of the Archives of Internal Medicine    --  have found that taking the same dose of levothyroxine (i.e., Synthroid) at bedtime, as compared to first thing in the morning, may be better. 

The studies were prompted by observation that some patients had improved thyroid hormone profiles improved after they switched from taking their levothyroxine in the morning, to bedtime. 

In 2007, Clinical Endocrinology reported on a small pilot study,  which looked at the impact on thyroid hormone profiles by changing the time levothyroxine was taken from early morning to bedtime. They also evaluated the impact of this change on the circadian rhythm of TSH and thyroid hormones and thyroid hormone metabolism. The study, while small (12 subjects), was fairly conclusive in its findings, which the researchers said were “striking” and which have “important consequences for the millions of patients who take l-thyroxine daily.” 

Researchers reported that taking medication at bedtime, rather than the morning, results in “higher thyroid hormone concentrations and lower TSH concentrations.” TSH decreased and Free T4 levels rose in all patients by changing thyroxine ingestion from early morning to bedtime and T3 levels rose in all but one subject. And TSH decreased irrespective of the starting TSH levels, suggesting better absorption of the thyroid medication when taken in the evening. Interestingly, the researchers found that the circadian TSH rhythm -- the typical daily fluctuations of TSH that occur during a 24-hour period -- dids not vary. 

The researchers suggested several explanations for the results:

 

That study was conducted between April 2007 through November 2008m, and the results were reported on in the 2010 Archives of Internal Medicine article. The study was a randomized double-blind crossover trial. Ninety patients completed the trial, which involved a six-month period of taking 1 capsule in the morning and 1 capsule at bedtime, with one capsule active levothyroxine, the other placebo, and a switch at the three-month point. The researchers evaluated thyroid hormone levels, as well as creatinine levels, lipid levels, body mass index, heart rate, and quality of life parameters. 

The researchers found that the patients taking nighttime levothyroxine had a drop in TSH of 1.25 -- which is a significant change. They free thyroxine (Free T4) level went up by 0.07 ng/dL, and total triiodothyronine (Total T3) went up by 6.5 ng/dL. According to the researchers, there were no significant changes in the other factors.  

The researchers concluded that, given the improvement in thyroid hormone levels, physicians should consider prescribing levothyroxine to be taken at bedtime.  
 

You may want to talk to your practitioner about changing the time you take your levothyroxine (i.e., Synthroid, Levoxyl, Levothroid, Unithroid, Eltroxin) to bedtime, versus morning. And if you decide to change to taking your thyroid medication in the evening, be sure to have your thyroid levels evaluated -- six to eight weeks is a reasonable timeframe -- after you’ve made the switch. The blood test results, along with any improvements or worsening of symptoms, will help you and your doctor to determine if you need to adjust the dosage or timing of your medication.  
 