Definitions of general medical terms, as well as words related to women's health dieases and conditions.

What Is Pyuria?

A brief look at pyuria. Find out how pyria appears in urine and what it means.

What Is Urine?

Urine is defined and explored. Learn how urine is produced and how it travels out of the body.

What Is The Bladder?

The bladder is part of the urinary tract system. Learn about the function of the bladder.

What Are The Kidneys?

The kidneys are part of the urinary tract system. Learn about the function of the kidneys.

What Is Dysuria?

A look at what defines dysuria.

What Is Urinary Urgency?

A look at what defines urinary urgency.

What Is Oral Thrush?

A brief description of oral thrush that covers signs and symptoms, possible causes, and recommended treatments.

What Is Implantation Bleeding Or Spotting?

Implantation bleeding, or implantation spotting, is a small amount of vaginal bleeding that may occur about 10 days after conception.

What Is Nocturia?

The definition of nocturia.

Vaginal Speculum

A description of a vaginal speculum. Covers the use of the vaginal speculum.

Diaphragm

Glossary entry for diaphragm. Covers how the diaphragm works as a contraceptive to prevent pregnancy.

Medical Menopause

A look at the causes of medical menopause. Includes drugs that may induce medical menopause.

Progestin

A look at what progestin is and why your doctor may prescribe progestin-containing drugs.

Premature Menopause

A look at premature menopause. Learn what causes premature menopause.

Oral Contraceptives

A description of oral contraceptives. Covers the hormones that oral contraceptives contain.

What Are The Ureters?

Glossary entry for ureters. Learn about the function of the ureters.

Surgical Menopause

A look at surgical menopause. Includes causes of surgical menopause, and how surgical menopause differs from natural menopause.

Testosterone

A look at the hormone testosterone. Learn about the role testosterone production plays in both men and women.

What is Menstruation?

Definition of menstruation sometimes called period, monthly cycle, or Aunt Flo.

Follicular Phase of the Menstrual Cycle

A clear understanding of what happens during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. Definition of the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle.

Luteal Phase of the Menstrual Cycle

A simple look at the definition of luteal phase. Learn what happens during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and when it occurs.

Abortion - What Is Abortion

Abortion defined with additional resources.

Adhesion

Definition of adhesion and how they relate to medical health.

Bartholin's Gland Cysts and Abscesses

Information about the Bartholin's glands and what happens when these glands have cysts or abscesses.

What Is The Urethra?

Learn how the urethra works in the body. Find out how sex can lead to urinary tract infection via the urethra.

What Are GnRH Agonists?

Learn what GnRH agonists are and how they work.