Once known as venereal diseases or VD and now called sexually transmitted diseases or STDs and sometimes sexually transmitted infections or STIs discussed in clear language. Be prepared to protect yourself from the many sexually transmitted diseases in the world today. Discover the facts about STDs from causes, symptoms, and diagnosis, to treatments and prevention..

What Is Trichomoniasis?

Trichomoniasis facts. Learn about trichomoniasis symptoms, diagnosis, treaments, and prevention.

Chlamydia - The Silent Epidemic

Chlamydia is the most common STD affecting over four million annually in the United States. Learn about the symptoms of chlamydia, as well as treatments and how to prevent chlamydia and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDS).

8 Myths and Misconceptions About Sexually Transmitted Diseases - STDs

Myths and misconceptions about sexually transmitted diseases or STDs are abundant. Discover the truth about STD myths and learn how to protect yourself from the potential long-term effects of sexually transmitted diseases.

Why Is Sexual Intercourse Painful?

A review of the physical causes of pain and discomfort during sexual intercourse. Covers causes of painful sexual intercourse including vaginal infections, vaginal dryness, sexually transmitted diseases, and pelvic pain.

Talking to Your Teens About Sexual Issues and Safe Sex

Tips to help parents know how to talk to their teens about sexual issues including condoms and safe sex.

The HPV Cervical Cancer Connection

Twenty-four million Americans may have the human papillomavirus (HPV), yet more than 76 percent of women in the United States have never heard of this sexually transmitted virus which causes approximately 93 percent of all cervical cancers.

Facts About Sexually Transmitted Diseases

Important facts about sexually transmitted diseases or STDs that sexually active women and men need to understand. Includes basic facts about STDs, potential risks to those infected with sexually transmitted diseases, and a list of symptoms that indicate you should see your health care provider.

STDs and Pregnancy

Approximately two million pregnant women are affected by sexually transmitted diseases or STDs during each year in the United States. Discover the facts that every woman of reproductive age needs to know!