Estrogen replacement therapy is commonly prescribed for women experiencing premenopausal or menopausal symptoms. Learn how estrogen helps menopausal symptoms and how ERT affects your risk of heart disease, breast cancer, osteoporosis, and other women's health issues.

AHA Cautions Women With Cardiovascular Disease Against Estrogen Use

The American Heart Association says women with heart disease and certain other conditions should not use estrogen. Find out if you are among the women who the AHA recommends should not use estrogen replacement therapy.

Approved Labeling for Estrogen and Estrogen with Progestin

Information about the FDA's new labeling for estrogen and estrogen with progestin products for postmenopausal women.

Estrogen and Progestin Combination Raises Breast Cancer Risk

Discover why women who use combined estrogen/progestin face an increased risk for breast cancer.

Estrogen Benefits and Side Effects

Estrogen replacement therapy is discussed. Learn the pros and cons of estrogen hormone replacement therapy.

Estrogen Increases Heart Risk

Details about preliminary results from the Women's Health Initiative that indicate an increase in heart disease risk for post menopausal women on hormone replacement therapy (HRT).

Estrogen Information - Updates On Estrogens - Progestins

The decision whether to use estrogen with or without progestin for relief of the symptoms of menopause has never been an easy one. Discover the latest information and research about estrogen and hormone replacement therapy before you decide what is right for you.

FDA Advice to Postmenopausal Women About Estrogen and Progestins

Following the Women's Health Initiative the FDA issues new advice about the use of estrogen or estrogen with progestins. Learn the facts about estrogen replacement therapy or ERT from the FDA's point of view.

Q&A - Estrogen and Estrogen with Progestin Therapy

Answers to your questions about postmenopausal hormone therapy with estrogens and estrogen with progestin.

Q&A The Women's Health Initiative and EstrogenTherapy with Progestins

Questions and answers about the Women's Health Initiative study and the use of estrogens and progestins in menopausal women.

Should I Use Estrogen Supplements for Menopause?

Estrogen supplements are often the first treatment for menopause symptoms. Find out if estrogen is the right choice for your menopausal symptoms.

Side Effects of Estrogens and Progestins

Explore potential side effects of estrogen replacement therapy.

The FDA's Advice to Women taking Estrogens and Progestins

Is estrogen replacement therapy with progestins something that you should consider. Or are you already using this type of hormone replacement therapy? Learn what the FDA advises women about estrogen replacement therapy or ERT.

This Estrogen's Only Skin Deep

EstroGel(r) (estradiol gel) is the first-ever estrogen therapy transdermal gel in the country for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms, as well as vulvar and vaginal atrophy associated with the menopause.