Question: What Does Everyone Need to Know About STDs?

Everyone, young or old, rich or poor, sexually active or not, needs to know a few important facts about sexually transmitted diseases. Its particularly important that, if we are parents, we spend time throughout our childrens lives discussing these issues in an age-appropriate manner. The more educated our children and teens are about the facts about sexually transmitted diseases, the better the chance is that if they do decide to have sex they will know how to protect themselves from sexually transmitted diseases and infections, as well as HIV the virus that causes AIDS, and unplanned pregnancy.See: Talking to Your Teens About Sexual Issues and Safe Sex

Other important things you need to know about STDS include:

Sexually transmitted diseases do not discriminate. You can be any age, race, religion, financially secure or insecure, any education level and hold any job from blue collar to CEO. You could be Jane Doe down the street or Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, or Regis Philbin. The point is anyone who participates in sexual activity is at risk of contracting a sexually transmitted disease or infection. The three ways to protect yourself from sexually transmitted diseases are:

It may not surprise you to know that the majority  two-thirds  of all sexually transmitted diseases occur in teenagers and young adults under the age of twenty-five years old. Even with all the education and resources available today, sadly, the number of cases of STDs continues to rise.

For women the signs and symptoms of STDSs are sometimes difficult to recognize simply because oftentimes there are no obvious symptoms of sexually transmitted diseases in women. Another reason is misdiagnosis because the signs of STDS are easily confused with other reproductive health problems and the proper treatment may not be prescribed. This makes is urgent that you are honest with your health care provider about your current and prior sexual history.

Unfortunately, women also are more at risk of getting STDs than men and young women are at even greater risk. This is due to vaginal friction that occurs during sexual intercourse that may cause small rips or tears in the vaginal walls and make women more susceptible to possible sexually transmitted diseases, infections, or HIV/AIDS.

Just because you do not have any sign of STDs is no reason to forget to practice safe sex! Remember, either you or your partner may be infected with a sexually transmitted disease or infection and be unaware of the fact  this is how STDs continue being transmitted over and over again. Always follow the three rules above for the safest sexual experience possible.