Going to the doctor can be an intimidating and uncomfortable situation. From time to time, you might forget what to ask. Here's your chance to get some answers to the questions you forgot (or were afraid) to ask and information on things you should consult with your doctor about.

Heart disease is the leading cause of death for men in the United States. Find out how to avoid having a heart attack or how to live after one.

Diabetes can lead to several health problems, like heart attacks, kidney disease, and sexual dysfunction. Improper diagnosis or lack of treatment can cause amputation, blindness or death. The best way to defeat diabetes is to be armed with knowledge about its cause and treatment.

Syphilis, HIV, chlamydia, HPV, gonorrhea and genital herpes are the six most common sexually transmitted diseases. Learn more about how to prevent transmission of STDs, and what your options are if you are diagnosed with one.

Going to the urologist may not be pleasant, but it's necessary to keep urological problems under control.

About 25% of adults suffer from digestive problems. There are some digestive issues that hit men hard. Learn how to live with your digestive problems.

Breathe in. Breathe out. Such a simple task can be extremely difficult for someone suffering from a lung problem. Check out these articles to teach you how to breathe easy with lung and allergy issues.

Receiving a cancer diagnosis is frightening. But armed with knowledge of the causes, stages and treatment options can make living with cancer a little less scary.

Weighing only three pounds, your brain is the most powerful organ in your body. It houses your most treasured memories, fantasies and personality. But your mind can deceive you. Whether you are suffering from memory loss or thoughts of suicide, find out what is going on in your mind.

Oh, my aching back! Pain in your joints are bothersome. Though you may think it's a natural part of aging, the pain you feel may be a sign that something is wrong.

Breakouts, rashes, bumps, lumps and confusing marks -- your skin can bring new surprises every day. Get answers to your skin and hair questions.

As you age, you might notice your hearing and vision aren't as sharp as they once were. Is that normal?

You know something's wrong but unsure what the problem is. Check out these articles and our symptom checker to figure out what's wrong.