Once known as venereal diseases or VD, today these diseases are called sexually transmitted diseases and infections or STDs and STIs. Discover causes and prevention, treatments, diagnosis methods, consequences, and symptoms of STDs or STIs, as well as the answers to other questions you have about sexually transmitted diseases and sexually transmitted infections.

Should I Be Tested for STDS?

A look at who the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists or ACOG recommends should be tested for STDs or sexually transmitted diseases, sometimes called venereal diseases or VD.

What Does Everyone Need to Know About STDs?

Everyone, young or old, rich or poor, sexually active or not, needs to know a few important facts about sexually transmitted diseases. Learn three simple rules to protect yourself from STDs.

Do STDs or STIs Cause any Health Risks to Women and Not to Men?

A look at how STDs or STIs may cause specific health risks to women that men do not face. Learn the reproductive health risks to women who get sexually transmitted diseases or STDs, or sexually transmitted infections or STIs.

How Can I Prevent Myself From Getting STDs?

Learn how to guarantee you won't get a STD. Discover how to have safe, responsible sex.

How Can I Protect Myself and Others if I Have a STD?

Simple steps for protecting yourself and others if you have a STD. Learn what you must do to make sure you get well and don't transmitt a sexually transmitted disease to others.

What are the Consequences of Sexually Transmitted Diseases?

A look at potential health consequences resulting from sexually transmitted diseases.

Does the Female Condom Provide STD Protection?

Learn important facts about the female condom and STD prevention.

What are the Symptoms of Sexually Transmitted Diseases?

A quick look at common symptoms that might indicate you have a sexually transmitted disease.

Condoms Facts

A look at condoms, how they work, and how they help to prevent sexually transmitted diseases, and HIV/AIDS.

How to Use A Female Condom

The female condom is a sleeve-like device made of polyurethane. Learn how to properly use the female condom for maximum effeectiveness.