Impotence is a very common problem. Remember one in ten men have a problem achieving and or sustaining an erection at some point in their lives. The important thing is if you have a problem that does not seem to be improving, you get help. You have read what impotence is, you have looked at the possible causes of it. Now lets look at the many treatments available for impotence.

There have been big advances in the treatments for impotence.

Psychosexual Therapy for Impotence

 It is estimated that up to 90% of the cause of erectile problems have a psychological cause. This can range from relationships difficulties, performance anxiety or deeper more complex causes. An experienced counselor or therapist can help. They look at and work through these difficulties with you offering possible solutions.

Vacuum Pump Treatments for Impotence

 A vacuum pump is a plastic cylinder. Vacuum pumps work by placing the device over the penis. Sucking out the air from the tube creates pressure and blood is forced rapidly into the penis (simulating what happens in an erection). A ring is then applied temporarily to the base of the penis to stop the blood draining away too quickly. This sustains the erection.

Injection Treatments for Impotence

 A drug is injected directly into the shaft of the penis when you want to have sex. Although it sounds a bit worrying it is easy to learn. The medication usually works within about 15 minutes.

Hormone Treatments for Impotence

 Hormonal problems are rarely the cause of impotence. The most common hormone abnormality is reduced levels of the male sex hormone testosterone. Testosterone can be restored to a therapeutic level with hormone replacement therapy. Testosterone replacement therapy should only be taken if you are tested and these tests confirm a deficiency.

Penile Prosthesis Treatments for Impotence

 You should not consider a penile prosthesis (implant) until other forms of treatment have been tried. There are two types of penile implant,



Surgical Treatments for Impotence

 There are a number of surgical procedures that can be carried out if there is a treatable cause of your impotence such as abnormalities in the blood flow in and out of the penis.

Remember the causes of erectile dysfunction may be organic or psychological cause or a combination of the two. A specialist in the field of impotence are the best people to investigate and treat the cause. A starting point should be your family doctor or genitourinary specialist.

For article sources see next page