Information and advice on sexually transmitted diseases. Syphilis, chlamydia, gonorrhea, crabs, lice, HIV AIDS, herpes and other matters relating to sexual health

Is there a third sex?

Not all children are born with a clear-cut gender. When ambiguity occurs the decision to assign gender has largely been determined by the size of the external genitalia. Now the debate has shifted towards individual rights and a question over whether we need to learn to accept the existence of a third sex.

Hypogonadism

Hypogonadism is a reduction or absent of hormones being secreted from the sex glands (gonads).

World AIDS Day

Over 1.2 million people are estimated to be living with AIDS.

Does Masturbation Cause Memory Loss?

Does Masturbation Cause Memory Loss? FAQs about masturbation.

Does Masturbation Cause Baldness?

Does Masturbation Cause Baldness?

Does Masturbation Cause Madness?

Does Masturbation Cause Madness?

Do Males Masturbate more than Females?

Do Males Masturbate more than Females?

What Counts as Excessive Masturbation?

What Counts as Excessive Masturbation?

How often is it normal for males to masturbate?

How often is it normal for males to masturbate?

From what age do men start masturbating?

From what age do men start masturbating?

What is Masturbation?

What is Masturbation?

Sexual Satisfaction & Penis Size

What is the relationship between penis size and sexual satisfaction?

The Male Orgasm

The male orgasm is not just about ejaculation. It is possible to have an orgasm without ejaculation. Pre adolescent boys can often experience an orgasm without ejaculation.

Sexual Addiction

Most common among men, sexual addiction is an overwhelming desire to have sex.

Sex after Fatherhood

Is there a right or wrong time to re-commence sex after your partner has had a baby?

Genital Herpes

Genital herpes is spread via sexual contact with someone else who is infected. Herpes is caused by the herpes simplex virus.

Pain during intercourse

Pain during intercourse if often thought of as a female issue. This is not case as men suffer intercourse pain for a variety of reasons.

Ejaculation

Ejaculate is 90% water. Semen is a milky opalescence, and opaque. Opalescence increases when the ejaculate has a higher concentration of sperm.

Sexual Arousal

Male sexual arousal follows a predictable path. In this article both the process of sexual arousal leading to orgasm is reviewed, as are the most common reasons why arousal is inhibited or stopped.

Crystal Meth

The movement of crystal meth into the mainstream is causing concern to health professionals. Crystal meth is now associated with the increase of sexually transmitted diseases and other conditions associated with unprotected sex. We review the effects, side effects and implications of the psychoactive substance known as crystal meth.

Epididymitis

Epididymitis refers to infection and inflamation of the tubes that lie on top and the back of the testicles. Check out these FAQs to get a better understanding.

Healthy Sperm

What do tight pants, smoking and hot tubs have in common? Answer: they all have a negative effective on sperm counts and sperm potency. Learn about how to keep sperm healthy.

Penis size

It exercises many men's minds for far too long. How do you stack up against other men? This article puts the penis into perspective.