What do the About.com Rating stars mean?

With the economy still in recovery mode, most Americans are eager for a bargain, especially on something as expensive as a car. Folks, meet the Nissan Versa S: Priced at $12,800 ($11,990 plus a manditory $810 destination fee), it's the least-expensive new car sold in America, listing for less than half of the average new-car transaction price of just over $29k.

Though the Versa S would seem to exist primarily as advertising fodder ("New Nissan Versa, $99 down and $99 per month!"), the fact is that the S model accounts for about 15% of Nissan Versa sales -- not an insignificant number. I wanted to see just how much car one can get for $13k, and Nissan was kind enough to hunt down a bare-bones Versa S sedan for me to test.

Low-priced entry-level cars like the Versa S are designed to draw buyers into the showroom, where skilled dealers can up-sell them to something nicer and more profitable. So the Versa S is one of the few cars that tries to play down its showroom appeal: Door handles and mirrors are done in black plastic, and the window frames are body color (the exact opposite of nicer Versa models). Even the chrome ring around the grille (link goes to photo) is gone. Color choices are limited and equipment is sparse: No power door locks, no power windows, no power mirrors, and no cruise control. The sole option is a 4-speed automatic transmission priced at $1,000.

Surprisingly, the Versa S comes with air conditioning as well as a two-speaker CD stereo with auxiliary input jack as standard. This is cheap-car economics at work: It's more cost-effective to build then all with A/C than to develop a non-air-conditioned version for a small percentage of production. And, of course, Versa S buyers get the peace-of-mind that comes with a 3 year/36,000 mile bumper-to-bumper warranty with 5 years or 60,000 miles of coverage on the powertrain (engine, transmission, and the mechanical bits that make the wheels go 'round).

There are nicer versions of the Versa: The S Plus model gets a fuel-efficient continuously-variable automatic transmission (CVT), cruise control, a rear spoiler, and more color choices; the SV adds power windows, mirrors and locks, nicer exterior trim, and an upgraded interior; and the Versa SL positively spoils its owners with alloy wheels, keyless ignition, Bluetooth-compatible stereo, and an optional ($760) navigation system. Here's the coolest part: Even with all the goodies, the Versa tops out at $18,460 -- $420 less than a bare-bones Honda Civic.

The base-model Versa's cabin is as plain as you'd expect, with an unadorned plastic dashboard and upholstery that looks like the cheap seat covers they sell at chain auto parts stores. Interior storage is limited, and you can forget about pleasantries like padded door panels, center armrests, and contrasting-color trim, though you will find them on nicer versions of the Versa.

And yet the whole isn't as bleak as the sum of its parts might suggest: Curvy shapes on the dash add some cheeriness to the dreariness, and the simple control layout and excellent all-round visibility show that Nissan hasn't ignored the basics. The front seats come up short on thigh support, but are otherwise surprisingly comfortable. And the Versa's interior does get nicer as you spend more money: Higher trim levels add bright trim, upgraded upholstery, and a snazzier gauge cluster.

But the ace up the Versa's steel sleeve is the back seat: It's huge! The Versa actually offers more back-seat head- and leg-room than Nissan's mid-size Altima. The trunk is in the same territory at 14.9 cubic feet (though one has to move up to the SV model to get a folding rear seat.) Such capacity makes the Versa the only vehicle with a sub-$15k price tag to offer serious family-car creds.

Under the Versa's stubby hood is a 1.6 liter four-cylinder engine, its 109 horsepower and 107 lb-ft of torque providing plenty of power for the 2,400-or-so pound Versa. The bare-bones car I drove had a five-speed manual transmission; an old-tech four-speed automatic is optional, while S Plus, SV and SL models get a continuously-variable automatic transmission, or CVT. The CVT gets the best EPA fuel economy ratings by a significant margin: 31 MPG city and 40 MPG highway, versus 27/36 for the stick-shift and 26/35 for the four-speed auto. Even so, I managed an impressive 35 MPG.

I didn't have high expectations for the driving experience, but the Versa was more satisfying than I imagined. The engine is noisy and the transmission whines in the lower gears, but road and wind noise are nicely damped and the Versa rides steadily and smoothly, with none of the worrying suspension clunks one hears in cheap competitors like the Chevrolet Spark and Mitsubishi Mirage. Handling and steering are competent, if not exactly thrilling. I've driven better, but I've also driven a lot worse. The Versa is comfortable and relatively annoyance-free, and that's saying a lot -- remember the price!