Five car maintenance jobs you can do yourself

Everyone is looking for innovative ways to save money. Many car repair jobs are best left to the professionals, but here are five maintenance tasks that you can take on yourself, even if you've never so much as picked up a wrench.

Five ways to cut down your driving costs



How to live past 150,000 (miles, that is)

Twelve tips to help keep your car running forever

How to wash a car like the pros



How to clean, detail and wax your car's exterior



How to prepare your car for a road trip

Getting ready to take a trip? Car trouble is the last thing you need. Follow these tips to eliminate some common car-related vacation headaches.

Tire safety tips

Tires are vital to our cars' safety; they are literally the only thing that attaches our car to the road. These safety tips on tire inflation, tire balance, tire tread wear and tire maintenance will help ensure your car's safety.

Tire buying do's and don'ts

Buying tires can be a confusing experience. These simple do's and don'ts will remove some of the mystery.

How to winterize your car

Winters used to be tough on cars, but today's vehicles are designed to run in a variety of temperatures. By and large, a thorough winterization is no longer necessary -- but if you live where it snows, there are a few things you can do to prepare your car for winter.

Snow tire Q&A

How are snow tires different from other tires? Do you need snow tires, or are all-season tires good enough? This article answers five common questions about snow and winter tires.

How to Assemble a Winter Car Emergency Kit

An accident or breakdown is never a good thing; harsh winter weather brings additional problems and perils. Carry these lightweight and inexpensive items in your car to increase safety and relieve misery.

Fight rust!

Rust prevention is vital for both your car's appearance and your safety. Follow this season-by-season schedule to fight rust and help keep your car rust-free.

How to increase your car's resale value

Want your car to be worth more at trade-in time? If you only plan to keep your car a few years, then it's in your best interest to keep its resale value as high as possible -- after all, that's more money to put down on your next new car. These five tips will put your car well ahead of the pack and help to maximize its resale value.

What to do if your car is in a flood

Ten steps to follow to assess and address the damage