When automakers Chrysler and Fiat entered into an alliance in 2009, it become clear that Fiat was planning a return to the North American market, using Chrysler's dealer network as a stepping stone. In September, the company announced what will be required of dealers who wish to sell Fiats. This gives us a chance to look at how Chrysler/Fiat is setting up its dealer networks.

In this particular case, Chrysler/Fiat is looking to place Fiat dealerships in about 165 locations, concentrating on urban areas that have a high number of registered small cars. This is not surprising, since the 2011 Fiat 500 is expected to be the main volume leader for Fiat in the near term. That small car will compete with the likes of the Ford Fiesta.

About 400 dealers met with the company and learned the requirements, and proposals were due by Sept. 22. The company is aiming at establishing the network by the end of this year.

Overall, Chrysler has set up its dealer network in such a way that it's leaner and smaller than it used to be. This is a direct result of last year's bankruptcy proceedings. Chrysler is looking to avoid overlapping dealerships, so that its stores don't cannibalize sales from each other.

With the reemergence of Fiat in the U.S., Chrysler will likely be looking to update older stores to have a more modern look, and it's a safe bet that Fiat stores will look contemporary and urban, with the goal of attracting a younger buyer. This isn't just because the 500 is expected to appeal to young urbanites, but also because the company needs to prove itself.

Chrysler has to prove it can remain viable after the bankruptcy, and Fiat needs to shed the reputation for poor quality that dogged it the last time it sold cars in the U.S. It also needs to win over Americans who may be distrustful of a European automaker that hasn't been part of this market in a long time, as well as Americans who might still be bitter about the federal government's role in both Chrysler's 2009 bankruptcy and the alliance between Chrysler and Fiat.

That's a lot of pressure, but if the dealer network is set up correctly, that would go a long way to helping Chrysler/Fiat meet the challenge.