Before the 2011 Detroit Auto Show (officially, the 2011 North American International Auto Show, or NAIAS for short), I wrote a piece predicting that small cars would loom large in Detroit this year.

To an extent, I was right, but despite the presence of so many small-fries (the Hyundai Veloster coupe and Hyundai Curb Concept, Buick's Verano compact premium sedan, Chevrolet's Aveo-replacing Sonic, a new Honda Civic Coupe, and two-door crossover concept from Mini), the real theme might actually be technology, not size.

Specifically, I am referring to in-car technology that will keep consumers connected to the grid even when driving on it. It will become even harder to escape social media over the next few years. Hyundai's Veloster, for example, will offer voice text messaging when it launches this summer. That will be part of Hyundai's Blue Link multimedia suite, which is the latest in a line of such infotainment systems, following the lead of Ford's Sync and Chrysler's uconnect. Not only that, but the Veloster will allow drivers to hook up video-game systems.

Perhaps the coup de grace, though, is a location-sharing service, a la Foursquare or Facebook. Want to let your friends know what street you're stuck in traffic on? Well, now you can. One assumes that this is an opt-in, not opt-out, system.

Hyundai wasn't the only one getting in on the tech game. Kia--Hyundai's subsidiary--introduced a minivan concept--the KV7--that had Wi-fi and was setup to allow for easier social networking.

General Motors, on the other hand, introduced an iPhone app that will monitor certain vital signs in the Verano, using the company's OnStar system.

Pandora Internet radio will be available in several upcoming cars, including both the Verano and Veloster.

Traditional tech hasn't been forgotten--transmission maker ZF introduced a 9-speed automatic transmission--but it's clear that automakers are aware of our desires to tweet and Facebook our way through life.

What this means for dealers and suppliers is that social media sells. More precisely, it's the platforms that host all these features that have consumer appeal. Customers are attached to their smartphones, laptops, and iPads, and they are increasingly unwilling to leave them behind while on the road.

The smart dealers and suppliers will focus on multimedia systems as a selling point. Consumers can't seem to get enough of them, and those that are well done will appeal to the connected customer. Additionally, the increase in distracted-driving laws will force drivers to use wireless cell phone links for phone calls and text messaging, in order to keep their hands and eyes on the road. So even those folks who view their car as an escape pod from the grid might be forced to invest in this new kind of tech.

After all, if no one is willing to disconnect from the grid, who will do the driving?