Could an SRT8 version of the 2011 Dodge Charger be on the way? Photo courtesy of Dodge.

The 2011 Chicago Auto Show press days kick off tomorrow, and while the show won't be as busy as the 2011 North American International Auto Show in Detroit, there will be plenty going on

If you're a dealer, supplier, or employee for Chevrolet, Chrysler,Hyundai, Volkswagen, or Acura, there is plenty to be excited about.

Chevrolet is likely to introduce two vehicles, one of which may be based on the Camaro platform. If, as rumored, one of those vehicles is the new Camaro Z28, that means Chevy will have one more flagship performance car to get consumers in the door. Hyundai may also be playing the performance game, as rumors are swirling about added horsepower to its Genesis sedan and perhaps a performance version of its Veloster coupe. Volkswagen may follow suit, with a hot hatchback based on the new Jetta sedan.

Chrysler, too, could get in on the performance picture with a SRT8 version of its redesigned Dodge Charger, although there could be other surprises. We do know that the although Chrysler is not doing a press conference (its Dodge and Ram brands are), the company will show off the 2011 Chrysler 200 Convertible at the show.

Acura, on the other hand, will likely show off a refreshed TL sedan. Acura's styling has been roundly criticized, and the company may feel the need to respond in kind with a fresh look.

What does this mean for dealers and suppliers? Well, it looks like Chicago will be about performance this year. While most performance models don't sell in large numbers--especially in the face of expensive gas and a shaky economy--they do bring buyers into showrooms and get attention in advertising. The positive PR brought on by performance models can trickle down to economy models. Automakers want to show consumers that their products are fun to drive, and by producing performance models, they can implant that image in consumer's heads.

For Acura, the story is a bit different. The once strong luxury brand has lost its way, and a new TL could re-capture wandering buyers if the design is a hit. At the very least, a good refresh will bring customers back into showrooms.

If the rumors come true, Chicago has a clear performance theme this year. When automakers take chances on fast cars, that's a sign that the industry feels good about itself. Given the doom and gloom of the past two years, this is a sign that perhaps the automakers feel that the dark clouds have finally fully lifted.