There are hedge funds and gamblers who hedge their bets. Then there's Kia of South Korea, which hedges its automobiles.

Kia is steadily stretching its lineup to cover almost any prospective customer, from folks who can afford only an entry level economy car to comfort-oriented people who have more disposable income but don't want to spend the money it takes to secure an S-Class Mercedes-Benz, BMW 7-Series, Lexus LS or Audi A8.

Kia's answer to the latter is the new K900, which Aaron recently reviewed. It's a full metal luxury sedan, fraternal sibling to the Hyundai Equus, and as with the Hyundai it costs tens of thousands of dollars less than its German and Japanese competitors. Ten years ago, we never would have expected a car like this from South Korea.

With the new Forte5 SX, Kia is looking to invest in a new market: The compact performance hatch.

The Forte is Kia's compact car, available as a four-door sedan, two-door coupe (called the Koup) and now a five-door hatchback called the Forte5. The SX is Kia's first attempt to add a turbocharged engine to its compact lineup.

The Forte5 SX should not be confused with its EX sibling, which uses a naturally aspirated, 173-horsepower, 2.0-liter four cylinder engine connected to a six-speed automatic transmission. Priced at $20,500, the Forte EX comes with a lower level of equipment than the turbocharged SX, which gets a 201 hp 1.6 liter turbo engine with the buyer's choice of manual or paddle-shifted automatic transmissions, both with six speeds.

The ordinary Forte competes with compacts like the Hyundai Elantra, Ford Focus, Chevrolet Cruze, Honda Civic, Volkswagen Jetta and Toyota Corolla, but the SX turbo is different -- it should be thought of as more in the company of the new critically praised Mazda3, particularly the 3s Touring with the more powerful 184-horsepower, 2.5-liter four-cylinder engine.

The Forte SX is one of those rare cars that delivers instant gratification and entices affection, especially with the six-speed manual gearbox. It delivers an involved driver experience with easy clutch action, an effortless shift linkage and rapid responses in performance and handling. Power delivery matches throttle inputs, as in right now with no turbo lag, making the Turbo5 a delight for stoplight sprints in urban areas.

On the road, the Forte5 SX is tight, planted and secure. Straight line tracking feels locked on, and the electric power steering delivers modest tactile feedback on curving rural roads. The system features three settings for steering effort, which doesn't affect handling. They could easily be eliminated in favor of the normal setting.

At the same time, the cabin is beachside quiet with no wind nose and only minimal mechanical and tire sounds, the better to enjoy the decent Bluetooth-capable stereo.

Cabin comfort is first rate for four. The front seats are supportive for long distance cruising. There's plenty of space in the outboard back seats for people up to about six feet tall; as in most small cars, the rear center passenger gets less respect than the luggage, which has 23 cubic feet of space to call its own.

The SX delivers substance as well as decent fuel economy with EPA ratings of 21 MPG city/29 MPG highway. Standard equipment includes full safety equipment, air conditioning, SiriusXM satellite radio, Bluetooth, Kia's UVO connectivity and entertainment system, rear backup camera, LED taillights, 18-inch alloy wheels, cruise control, power folding outside mirrors, adjustable (for effort) electric power steering and 60/40 split rear seatbacks that fold to expand cargo space -- a lot of stuff for a car that starts at $21,700.

The SX I tested came with options that included push-button ignition, navigation, a sunroof, dual-zone automatic climate control, leather upholstery, a 10-way power driver's seat with two memory settings, heated front seats and steering wheel, garage door opener and an auto-dimming inside mirror. That's even more stuff for the as-tested price of $25,700. The only option missing in my test car was an automatic transmission, which would have raised the price by another grand.

All in all, the Forte5 SX is an impressive, value-laden package, and one that deserves to be cross-shopped against other enthusiast models, including the well-established Volkswagen Golf, the smaller-but-quicker Ford Fiesta ST, and of course the Mazda3, the car that sets the standard for the class. It's a hedge I expect will pay off. -- Frank Aukofer



 2014 Kia Forte5 SX Turbo specifications:

Disclosure: The vehicle for this test drive was provided by Kia. For more information, please see our Ethics Policy.