The Mazda3 has always been an enthusiast's favorite, while other compact cars have concentrated on great fuel economy or family-friendly space. The new version of the Mazda3 brings an upgraded interior and its excellent SkyActiv fuel-saving technology -- but is it still the Three we know and love? Read on.

I only need two words to review the all-new 2014 Mazda3: It's brilliant. I can flesh out my argument in a single sentence: The Mazda3 has most of the compact-car must-haves, with an added dose of luxury and fun-to-drive flair that sets it apart from the competition. It's not flawless -- I've yet to find the car that is -- but it's flaws are the type that make you scratch your head rather than regret your purchase. I'll go ahead and list them -- that's my job -- but if you'd like to get out of here quickly, I suggest you skip to Page 2 and read the bit where I compare it to the competition. (Short version: It's short on interior space and long on driver appeal.) If your house is on fire and you only have five more seconds before you flee, my advice is that if you love to drive, buy one. (And if you don't, buy a Honda Civic.)

One of my (few) complaints about the Mazda3 is the styling. Not all of it; I think it's a handsome car from the front (link goes to photo), and those who hated the giant grin of the old Mazda3's grille will be much happier with the new car's schnozz, which is modeled after that of the bigger Mazda6. The sedan looks great from all angles; my problem is with the hatchback's odd proportions -- from the back it looks as if the car was suddenly truncated behind the rear wheels, not unlike the old AMC Gremlin.

Inside, the styling is lovely -- if someone pulled all the badges off and plopped me down behind the wheel of the new Mazda3, I'd guess I was sitting in an Audi. The texture on the dash, the red lighting on the instrument cluster, and the brushed-chrome bezel around the stand-up navigation screen are pulled directly from the Audi playbook, as are the dial controller and even the graphics on the screen. (Unfortunately, lower-end Mazda3 models get a stubby little stereo in place of the touch screen.)

But not all is perfect: As with most Mazdas, I found the interior a bit dark, and aside from the aforementioned stereo controller on cheaper Threes, there's little differentiation between the low-end and the high-end models -- the cabin of the $27,290 3s Grand Touring model looks a lot like that of the $17,740 3i SV.

Another area where the Mazda3 stumbles is on interior space. All is rosy for those up front, but the back seat skimps on the space and cargo room is on the stingy side. The sedan's trunk offers 12.4 cubic feet, and while the hatchback's cargo bay sounds generous at 20.4 cubic feet, the shape of the boot doesn't offer as much useful space as, say, the subcompact Honda Fit.

Also on the shame list: Mazda offers a nifty head-up display (they call it the Active Driving Display) which shows information like vehicle speed and navigation directions in the driver's line of sight. Several high-end cars offer this feature, though while most project information right onto the windshield, the Mazda3 uses a small stand-up plastic screen atop the dash. That's not the shamey part; what I don't like is that this useful feature is one of several that aren't offered with the smaller, more fuel-efficient engine -- others include active cruse control, lane departure warning, and a collision warning and mitigation system.

A couple of years ago, Mazda introduced the new SkyActiv powertrain, which included a 2-liter 155 horsepower engine with direct fuel injection and (for automatic cars) a fancy torque converter/clutch pack; together they boosted the Mazda3 into the 40 MPG club. The SkyActiv powertrain is basically unchanged, and I'm pleased: This is a great engine that provides plenty of power and great gas mileage. EPA fuel economy estimates are 30 MPG city/41 MPG highway with an automatic transmission and 29/41 with the six-speed manual. My stick-shift test car spent most of its time on city streets and relatively little on the highway; even so, it returned 33.5 MPG, about the same as we get from our long-term Chevrolet Cruze Eco with its small-displacement turbo engine and triple-overdrive manual transmission.

What I like best about the SkyActive engine is that it doesn't feel like the economy motor; it has lots of get-up-and-go. For power purists, Mazda still offers the 184 horsepower 2.5 liter engine, and its EPA estimates aren't much lower -- 28 city/39 highway. But the 2.5 liter engine isn't offered with a manual transmission, and as mentioned above, it's the only way to get access to some of the Mazda3's high-end gizmos and gadgets.

Regardless, the Mazda3's road manners are an auto-enthusiast's dream: The electric power steering steering feels direct and well-weighted, the handling is sharp and responsive, and yet the ride remains comfortable and well-composed. Out on the curvy test road, the Mazda3 proved itself to be as close to a sports car as a 40 MPG compact can be.