This month, in an effort to update the reviews linked from my Ten Least Expensive Cars article, I drove a couple of the Mirage's chief rivals, which gave me a good opportunity to see how Little Blue Car (yep, that's what we've named the Mirage) compares to the competition.

First, though, let's check in on how Little Blue is doing. We put nearly 1,800 miles on the car this month, and despite little change in our daily routine (that's right, we still haven't been out for that elusive road trip), our monthly fuel economy rose to 41.1 MPG, nearly 1 MPG better than last month. That brings our test average up to 40.5. Nothing has broken, and the interior is wearing well -- at least it seems to be under all the dirt and dust and sand and dog hair that an active family with teens and pets can deliver. The Mirage is proving to be durable and efficient, and I continue to earn the mistrust of my fellow journalists when I sings its praises. The conversation usually goes like this:

Me: "We have a long-term Mitsubishi Mirage."

Them: "Really? Who did you tick off to get a punishment like that?"

Me: "Actually, it's not really that bad. It's a bit crude, but it makes a nice city car and it consistantly gets 40 MPG."

...And then they scrunch up their face as if they just smelled something particularly foul.

I think it's an issue of context. Few of us test cars as inexpensive as the Mirage; as someone who writes quite a bit about cheap cars, I know how hard it can be to track them down for testing -- most automakers would rather have us in more plush and more powerful models. Compare the Mirage to a $30,000 car (never mind an $80,000 luxury sedan), and of course it's going to come off worse. Compare it to other small, inexpensive cars -- which I intend to do this month -- and you can better see the Mirage's highs and lows.

Priced at $12,780, the Versa is the least-expensive car sold in America. (If I had a dime for every time I'd written that sentence, I could buy two of 'em!) I recently tested a bare-bones Nissan Versa S, and was very impressed: The Versa is a big car that trumps our little blue Mirage (not to mention every other sub-$15k car) on back seat and trunk space. The interior is rather dreary, but it's functional, and I think it's on par with the Mirage. (Interior design has never been one of Mitsubishi's strengths, though the Mirage is certainly better than the Lancer.)

The Mirage does edge the Nissan out on content-per-dollar. The Mirage's starting price is higher ($13,805), but it tops out lower. Little Blue is a top-of-the-line ES model with alloy wheels, push-button keyless entry and ignition, and navigation, and is priced at $16,980. You can get all of those features in a Versa SL, but it'll set you back $18,500 (which, by the way, is still an incredible bargain).

The one area where the Mirage pulls strongly ahead is fuel economy. I averaged 35 MPG in the Versa, though, to be fair, I wasn't driving the most fuel-efficient version; my stick-shift tester carried EPA ratings of 27 city/36 MPG highway, versus 31/40 for the CVT automatic. But even with the CVT, I doubt the Versa would be able to match the Mirage's day-in-day-out 40 MPG performance. Both cars are noisy and lack steering precision, but I'd say the Versa is slightly better in both categories, plus it's peppier than the Mirage.

The Yaris is Toyota's least expensive car, though at $15,225 the basic three-door Yaris L is still two grand more than the cheapest Mirage. (Perhaps it'd be better to compare the pricing of the $16,750 Yaris LE, since that has five doors like the Mirage, but it also comes with an automatic transmission, which means it ought to be compared to the $14,805 Mirage DE CVT. See, this is why so few writers cover the cheap-car beat.)

Anyway, as you'd expect from a Toyota, the Yaris feels more substantial than the Mirage. More money was put into areas like sound insulation and interior materials, though there's less content than the Mitsubishi: Even the top-of-the-line Yaris SE I tested, priced well over seventeen grand, was missing equipment (automatic transmission, keyless entry/ignition, automatic climate control) that can be found in Little Blue.

The Yaris feels quicker and quieter than the Mirage (as does nearly every other car on the road) and leans less in the turns (as does nearly every other car on the road). But even with a manual transmission -- and I love manual transmissions -- I didn't find it anywhere near as satisfying to drive. The Yaris feels as if Toyota engineers phoned it in; it's dull and devoid of personality. The Mirage has the spirit of an underdog, and if its lower price shows in the engineering, it certainly doesn't show in the level of equipment. And let's not forget the Mirage's superior warranty. Were I choosing between the two, I'd take the Mitsubishi.

No question, this is the car to beat. Like the Mirage, the Fiesta SFE has a 3-cylinder engine; it's smaller (1.0 liter vs. 1.2) but has a turbocharger for significantly more power (123 hp vs. the Mirage's 74). And its EPA highway rating is higher at 45 MPG, though the city rating is lower at 32. (Our automatic Mirage's estimates are 37/44.)

The Fiesta is certainly quicker -- it moves like a four-cylinder car -- and its fun-to-drive factor is off the charts. But as I mentioned in my Fiesta SFE review, getting those stellar fuel economy numbers means keeping a light foot on the gas pedal and staying out of the turbo boost. You have to make a concerted, traffic-blocking, slower-traffic-keep-right effort, and with 123 horses just a shove-of-the-pedal away, that ain't easy.

Even with careful driving, I was averaging 35 MPG around town, and it took a nice long freeway drive at the legal limit to bring my week-long average up to 38.2. Contrast that with the Mirage, which requires liberal use of the accelerator just to keep up with traffic, and still averages 40 MPG. The Fiesta may be a nicer car, but at the end of the day, if you're looking for MPG, the Mirage's light weight and modest engine beat out the Fiesta's high-tech EcoBoost powertrain. (Not that it matters all that much, because the Fiesta SFE isn't available with an automatic transmission, which rules it out for a large number of American buyers.)

As I mentioned earlier, I seem to be the only journalist who likes the Mitsubishi Mirage -- but of all of my colleagues with whom I've discussed the car, I'm the only one who has driven one for more than a few days. Next month, we'll get into specifics -- what we like and what we don't like. Stay tuned!

Starting mileage: 7707

Ending mileage: 9482

Mileage this month: 1775

Averge fuel economy this month: 41.1 MPG

Average fuel economy overall: 40.5 MPG (up 0.3 MPG)

Repair/service costs this month: $0

Total repair/service costs: $41

Problems observed this month: None