What do the About.com Rating stars mean?

Subaru's mid-size Legacy is all-new for 2015 -- but will anyone notice? The Legacy has always been a slow seller, and that's a shame, because it packs serious advantages over the competition.

NOTE: Some of the larger photos may not display correctly in the Photo Tour. Please click the picture to see it in full. Sorry, and we'll try to get this corrected ASAP.

Despite Subaru's strong sales growth and fiercely loyal buyer base, their Legacy sedan has the distinction of being one of the slowest-selling mid-size cars on the market. During the press presentation for the all-new 2015 Legacy, Subaru showed us a chart indicating that the outgoing Legacy outsells just three of its competitors, two of which aren't even made any more. That's a bit like beating out three candidates in an election, two of whom are dead.

Though not terribly surprising -- Subaru is best known for wagons and SUVs like the Outback and Forester, as well as high-performance cars like the WRX -- that does strike me as terribly unfair. The new Legacy does everything a Toyota Camry or Honda Accord does, with a key critical edge that could well save life and limb.

What sets the Legacy apart is the standard-fit all-wheel-drive (AWD) system. Subaru tried selling AWD a few years back (perhaps you remember the tagline "The Beauty of All-Wheel-Drive"), but it failed to resonate with would-be customers; many people associate AWD with ice and snow, and many more don't even know what AWD is. Sure, AWD is great in winter, but it also improves dry-road traction -- in fact, it's a key element in Audi's much-vaunted sporty sedans, though they use the sexier "Quattro" moniker.

Why should would-be Camry and Accord buyers care? Because nearly every driver will, at some time, have to swerve to avoid an accident, and the extra grip that AWD provides can make the difference between a crash and a near-miss. And with the all-new Legacy, Subaru is basically giving away AWD for free -- something we'll discuss more on page 2.

From the outside, the new Legacy looks solid and substantial, with a few cues lifted from the Honda Accord and a bit of Hyundai around the grille. It's a bit anonymous, but in the mid-size sedan segment, a little anonymity isn't the worst thing.

Inside, the first thing that struck me (ouch!) was the quality of the materials, which is exceptionally good -- witness the soft-touch dashboard, padded headliner, textured trim (patterned metal in lower trim levels, fake-but-convincing wood in the top-of-the-line Limited), and the glossy touch-screen stereo, which is styled to look like a tablet computer. The control layout is straightforward and everything is easy to use. Under the coachwork are eight airbags, including one in each of the front-seat bottom cushions that prevents the occupants from sliding under the dash. If I have one complaint, it's about the overall look: Like the exterior, the Legacy's cabin is a bit blah. It's not ugly, but nor is it particularly stylish or modern.

But it's certainly comfortable for all concerned. Subaru invited journalists to bring their spouses along to the press preview, and my wife Robin had plenty to say about the ride. We both found the front seats comfortable and supportive, and we loved the all-round visibility; we drove through Big Sur, California, and the Legacy's big windows were great for taking in the scenery. Robin loved the extra padding in the armrests and the fact that the seat heaters have memory -- if they were on when you shut the car off, they'll come back on when you restart it.

The Legacy's back seat is also quite good, offering legroom just an inch shy of the limo-like Volkswagen Passat. The trunk sits towards the back of the pack at 15.0 cubic feet, but it's well shaped with a big opening and articulated hinges that don't eat up cargo space, which makes it easy to pack.

Though the Legacy's engines are the same size as last year, both have been extensively reworked to improve power and fuel economy. Most Legacys will have Subaru's 2.5 liter horizontally-opposed four-cylinder engine, now tuned for 175 horsepower, with EPA fuel economy estimates of 26 MPG city/36 MPG highway. Those numbers are equal to or better than all of the competition save the Nissan Altima and the Mazda6 -- no mean feat, considering the Legacy is the only car in the segment with all-wheel-drive. A 256 hp 3.6 liter six-cylinder engine is optional in the top-of-the-line Limited; it adds stronger acceleration and a better soundtrack at the cost of fuel economy, which is still respectable at 20/27.

Both engines drive all four wheels through a continuously-variable automatic transmission (CVT). I'm in the minority of car critics who like CVTs; they deliver smooth acceleration and great fuel economy. Some folks don't like the slippy-slidey sound of engine revs rising and falling, so many automakers have tuned their CVTs to act more like conventional automatics; this annoys me as it defeats the purpose of a CVT. Subaru seems to have found a happy medium: Tromp on the accelerator and the engine snaps to high RPMs like a conventional automatic; with a gentle food, the revs rise and fall as needed. It's a brilliant compromise that seemed to pleased both the CVT lovers (read: me) and CVT haters (read: everyone else).

As for the chassis, I have no complaints: The Legacy drives smoothly and comfortably, with Limited models providing a slightly harder ride thanks to larger wheels with lower-profile tires. The steering is a tad heavy but provides excellent feedback, and the grip is phenomenal; the Legacy flies through the curves with no drama, a much-appreciated by-product of all-wheel-drive.

I sampled a Legacy with the new version of EyeSight, Subaru's trade name for its camera-based lane-departure and active cruise control system. Both systems worked well; the lane departure system alarms at just the right time, while the active cruise accelerates and brakes gently and can be set to keep a tighter distance from the car ahead than most such systems, a boon in Los Angeles traffic.