I don't know quite how to tell you what I need to tell you, so I'm just going to tell you: For years, you've been the mid-size sedan I loved most. (Forget about that little affair with the Nissan Altima 2.5S. It didn't have electronic stability control and meant nothing to me.) But you've changed so much, and I just don't think we're right for each other anymore. Yes, I know what people are going to say. They'll say I'm crazy to break it off with you now, when you're all-new for 2010 and better than ever. They'll say that if I can't appreciate your standard all-wheel-drive and electronic stability control, that maybe I just don't deserve you. Look, Legacy -- just because you're not right for me doesn't mean there aren't plenty of other people out there for you. Look at what a bargain you are -- $20,690 for power windows, mirrors and locks, air conditioning, a nice stereo, and a full boat of safety gear. You're no more expensive than an ordinary front-wheel-drive car. You now offer a six-cylinder engine for under $26k, and even with all the trimmings you're still under $34,000. You're a better deal than ever, Legacy, and there are plenty who are bound to find you irresistible. Just... not me. What? No, I'm not leaving you because you've gained weight! You're only 65 lbs heavier than you were in 2009, and frankly I love the fact that you're now longer, wider and taller. Your facelift? Well... it's different, and no, I'm not crazy about it. Then again, your looks were never the reason I was attracted to you.

Yes, I know how much you've changed on the inside. The materials are all good quality, and I like the silver trim in your Base and Premium models better than the wood in the top-of-the-line Limited. But I don't need you to look good for me, Legacy; I need you to be supportive. And frankly, your front seats just just don't do that -- the bottom cushions end too abruptly. Of course I noticed your new back seat, and I appreciate that you're trying to be so accommodating to my friends -- even the really tall ones -- with all that additional leg- and head-room. And your new larger trunk is a nice touch -- you know I have a lot of baggage. But it's not all good, Legacy. Short as I am, I still have to duck low to avoid hitting my head when getting in the back seat, and your trunk opening is too small for big, bulky items. Why is it so hard for you to let people in? And another thing, Legacy -- why can't you treat me a little better? Yes, your new electric parking brake is a cool little gizmo. But why can't I get Bluetooth phone connectivity on the base model without paying $500 extra for a high-end stereo? Why is navigation only offered on the top-of-the-line Limited model? And why don't you offer luxury amenities like rain-sensing wipers, headlights that turn with the steering wheel, or a push-button ignition? Other mid-size non-luxury cars do nowadays. No, I don't need those things, Legacy... but they sure would be nice to have.

What I always loved best about you, Legacy, is that you're safe. I think back to all those cold rainy nights, when your all-wheel-drive and electronic stability control kept me going in the right direction. And even when the sun was shining, I knew that if some disaster erupted on the road ahead, I could count on you not to lose control. But I crave something more than just safety, Legacy. I need a little adventure. Not that I expected anything like that from your standard 170 hp 2.5 liter four-cylinder engine. I always used to complain about you in manual-transmission form, how I had to run you so hard to get any action, and how much noise you made when I did. That hasn't changed even though you're up to six speeds from last year's five. That said, your new continuously-variable automatic transmission (CVT) is a class act -- smooth, quiet, and very fuel-efficient. It really brings out the best in you. And your optional 3.6 liter six-cylinder engine, with its five-speed automatic transmission, isn't bad either -- more powerful than last year's 3.0, and I see you've kicked the premium-fuel habit. Don't think I don't appreciate your commitment to change. But the turbocharged 265hp GT model was the one I most wanted to spend time with -- and frankly, it just left me cold. Yes, it's quick -- but the suspension is the same as the other models, so it's not any more fun. You grip the road well, Legacy, but your steering has gotten lazy, your driveline shudders under hard acceleration, and if I can be a little crude, you just don't speak to my backside the way you used to.

The truth, Legacy -- the whole truth -- is that I've found someone else. The Mazda6 has a better interior and a longer options list. But more importantly, it engages me. When we go for a romp on a curvy road, the Mazda6 seems to enjoy it as much as I do -- it's not just along for the ride. Yes, I know the Mazda6 doesn't have all-wheel-drive. I know it might lose its grip in a situation where you wouldn't. But that's a risk I'm willing to take. Which one would I trust my kids with? Well, you of course -- but please, let's not confuse passion with logic. No, this isn't just a passing fancy, Legacy. There are plenty of other cars that have caught my eye over the years. There was the Chevrolet Malibu, a corn-fed American beauty with a great interior and a smooth, quiet demeanor...the Honda Accord, with its big cabin and great road manners...or the Toyota Camry, Ol' Reliable...of course, everyone relies on the Camry, if you catch my drift. But none of them stir my soul the way the Mazda6 does...or the way you used to. How could you win me back? Maybe if you offered more amenities. Maybe if you were a bit more involving to drive. Maybe if the GT model had a better suspension and a bit more passion for the road. But don't change just for me, Legacy. You always said you wanted to broaden your appeal, and now you've done it. Besides, you know my tastes have always been a little strange. You're a great catch just as you are, and I know you're going to make someone very, very happy. -- Aaron Gold Next page: Pros and cons, details and specs, best rivals