Always eager to help, the car guys at About and the car guys at Edmunds have combined to to suggest the best cars in every significant category. Scan the lists below and have fun finding the car of your dreams. Or at least the car your wallet dreams about.

Ten Most Fuel-Efficient Cars of 2011

Ten Most Fuel-Efficient Cars of 2011

Best New Cars of 2014

About.com picks the best new and redesigned cars of 2014.

Ten Most Fuel-Efficient Cars of 2012

You can find plenty of lists of the most fuel-efficient cars on the US market -- but how many would you want to drive? We'll take you through each of these cars and tell you which ones you'll want to drive and which ones you'll want to leave by the side of the road.

2013 About.com Cars Readers' Choice Award Winners

Your picks for the best cars of 2013

My Favorite Fuel Efficient Cars

My philosophy about fuel-efficient cars is that one shouldn't give up an enjoyable drive just to save fuel. That's why this isn't just a by-the-numbers list of cars with the best fuel economy. Instead, I've put together a list of cars that I think are the most enjoyable of the misers. Here they are -- ten high-MPG cars that constitute my...

Ten Small Cars You Can Live With

Think you need a big car? Think again -- here are ten small cars that do the job just as well as large cars or SUVs, and yet have the low pricing, easier driving, and superior fuel economy of a small car.

Ten 2012 Cars Worth Waiting For

Ten 2012 Cars Worth Waiting For - My most-anticipated new 2012 cars

2011 About.com Cars Readers' Choice Award Winners

Your picks for the best cars of 2011

Your picks: Best family cars under $20,000

Readers give their opinions on the best family cars under $20,000.

Top 10 Deals on Wheels

Our guide to some of the best (and least-well-known) auto bargains

Top 10 Features Your Next Car Should Have

Our favorite gadgets and gee-gaws

Top 10 SUV Alternatives

Need space and bad-weather ability? These cars do it best

Best Road Trip Cars

With airline travel getting more miserable (and more fee-laden) day by day, many folks are re-discovering the joys of the great American road trip -- but which cars are best for life on the road? Different travelers have different needs, so I've picked a variety of cars that I think make great road trip vehicles. Here they are, arranged by price from lowest to highest.

We all dream of stepping out into our driveway and finding a four-wheeled present with a giant bow. Let's say you want to make that fantasy come true for someone in your life -- here are ten cars, listed in alphabetical order and chosen to fit all budgets and tastes, that would make great presents.

Top 10 Fun, Fuel-Efficient Cars

Who says "fun" and "frugal" are mutually exclusive?

Ten Small Cars You Can Live With

Think you can't live with a small car? Here are ten vehicles that might just prove you wrong.

Your picks: Best cars for dads

Have your say -- what are the best cars for dads?

Ten Best Cars for Teens

Here are ten cars that are easy to drive and affordable to buy, insure and run. Another Top Picks list from the road testers at About Cars.

Cars for Dads

Here are ten cars that are perfect for dads -- cars that combine a modicum of practicality with high cool quotient and fun-to-drive factor that make them ideal for fathers.

Cars for Moms

Who says motherhood demands a minivan or big SUV? Here are ten cars that are perfect for moms, with lots of family-friendly features that mothers everywhere will approve of.

Ten best gifts for car buffs

Wondering what to buy the car lover in your life? Here are ten suggestions that will fit all budgets.

Your picks -- Best gifts for car buffs

Your picks -- Best gifts for car buffs

About.com Cars 2013 Readers' Choice Awards Nomination Form

Nominate your picks for our 2013 Readers' Choice awards! Open categories include Best Family Car, Best Performance Car, Best Car for Teens, Best Car Under $17,000, and Best New Car of 2013.

About.com Readers' Choice Awards 2013 - Best Performance Car of 2013

Vote for your favorite performance car in the 2013 About.com Readers' Choice Awards

About.com Readers' Choice Awards 2013 - Best Car for Teens of 2013

Vote for your favorite car for teens in the 2013 About.com Readers' Choice Awards

About.com Readers' Choice Awards 2013 - Best New or Redesigned Car of 2013

Vote for your favorite car for teens in the 2013 About.com Readers' Choice Awards

About.com Readers' Choice Awards 2013 - Best Car Under $17,000 of 2013

Vote for your favorite car for teens in the 2013 About.com Readers' Choice Awards

Cheapest Cars of 2010

Are cheap cars really all that cheap? We've driven the ten least-expensive 2011 cars on the American market, and here we share our opinions of the cars that carry the lowest sticker prices in the US.