What do the About.com Rating stars mean? America has always been sedan country, but hatchbacks are making a comeback, and nearly every major automaker has introduced a new or updated subcompact hatch in the last two years. Now it's Nissan's turn, with the freshly-updated Versa Note. The Versa Note is styled for Europe and sized for America -- but can it stand out in a crowded segment? Read on.

Auto writers like me live in fear of average run-of-the-mill cars. We prefer cars that are really good and we'd sell our own mothers for a car that is really bad, because then we get to use flowery adjectives like "stupendous" and "thrilling" and "detestable" and "horrific". Give us a car that is just okay, and we're left with descriptors like... well, like "just okay". The all-new Versa Note is one of those nightmare cars. It is not detestable or horrific, but neither is it stupendous or thrilling. It's a thoroughly competent hatchback that beats the snot out of the competition in a couple of key areas, soaring above them like a stupendously triumphant eagle. But for the most part, it is just okay. For those unfamiliar, the Versa Note is the hatchback sibling of the Versa sedan, itself best known as America's least-expensive car. The new name notes the marriage of the European, Asian and American versions of the car; the outgoing Versa hatch was based on the Japanese-market Tiida, while the Europeans got a different car called the Note. The new Versa Note's pan-global mission also explains the styling, which happens to be one area where Versa Note is both stupendous and thrilling: To my eye the Versa Note is as attractive as the Versa sedan is awkward, with pleasing proportions and a nifty C-shaped crease stamped into the doors that Nissan calls the "squash line", because it resembles the path of a squash ball when you slam the daylights out of it with a racket.

While the Versa sedan is shared with less-discriminating markets like China and India, the Versa Note must do battle in style-conscious Europe; these divergent missions explain the Versa Note's divergent interior. While the Euro-market Note gets a thoroughly modern dashboard, the Versa Note shares its dashboard (link goes to photo) with the Versa Sedan. I like the simple controls and the playful shapes, but the shiny plastic put me off. The dash looks right at home in the entry-level S and S Plus models, which get crank-down windows set in dreary plastic door panels and a headliner that looks like it's made of fuzzy cardboard. But in the SV and SL models, which feature nicer upholstery and contrasting-color cloth inserts in the doors, it looks plasticky and cheap. The front seats are reasonably comfortable, if a bit undersized, and while you can get them heated on the tippy-top-of-the-line model, neither leather nor a reasonable vinyl-based facsimile are offered. It's the back seat that offers stupendous thrills: Considering how small the car is, it's a shock (and a thrill) to open the back door and see such a stupendously cavernous back seat. The Versa Note offers more rear legroom than any other compact hatch, though the Honda Fit edges it out for headroom. The Versa Note also wins on cargo space: 21.4 cubic feet, edging out the Kia Rio and the Honda Fit, though the Nissan lacks the cargo-carrying flexibility that comes with the Fit's trick back seat. The Versa Note's back seat does not fold down flat, so Nissan has designed a false floor (which they call Divide-n-Hide) that can be fitted at a higher level, providing both a flat load surface and hidden storage for laptops and purses. Unfortunately, this rather handy feature is omitted from the least-expensive Versa Notes.

Open the narrow strip of metal that serves as the Versa Note's hood and you'll find a 1.6 liter four-cylinder engine tuned for 109 horsepower. The 0-60 time of around 11 seconds sounds horrifically slow, but in reality the Versa Note's acceleration feels adequate. S Plus, SV and SL models get a continuously-variable automatic transmission (CVT) with a nifty new feature that can only be explained in Engineeringese: A planetary gearset that effectively gives the CVT a high and a low range, broadening the available gear-ratio spread. Translated to English, that allows the CVT to achieve better acceleration and gas mileage; as a bonus, it provides a nice, sharp kick-down feel when you boot the accelerator. Fuel economy ratings are stupendous: 31 MPG city and 41 MPG highway, and I averaged 37.7 in (relatively) gentle mixed driving. If want a stick-shift, you can get one, but only in the basic S-model. It's a stupendously average unit with a light clutch and just-okay shift feel; the biggest problem is that it drags the EPA estimates down to 27 city/36 highway. In all other respects, the Versa Note is as just-okay as it gets. The steering is nicely weighted, but it's not very precise on center -- not as bad as the Hyundai Accent or Kia Rio, but it does tend to wander a bit on the highway. The ride is on the firm side of comfortable, the handling is competent but unexciting, and the noise levels are just on the high side of average.