This is a 3LCD projector. It measures 11.6 inches wide by 9.1 inches in diameter by 3.1 inches high when the feet are taken into consideration, which is on the larger side for an Epson projector. Lowering the feet drops the height down to 3.0 inches. Considering the price tag as it compares with Epson's other models, you shouldn't really expect to get anything too slim. The EX3212 weighs in at 5.1 pounds, which is also on the heavy end for the company's projectors. If size and weight are at rue concern, take a look at pico projectors. These devices are about the size of an iPod, but you will sacrifice a few things to get there. The native aspect ratio is listed at 4:3, with no resize figures listed. The native resolution is SVGA (800 x 600). This can be resized to 640 x 480 (VGA), 1024 x 768 (XGA), 1152 x 864 (SXGA), 1280 x 800 (WXGA), and 1400 x 1050 (SXGA+). The throw ratio range is listed as 1.45 - 1.96. It can project from a distance of 30 inches to 350 inches. Light output is listed at 2,800 lumens for both color and white light. Color and white light are measured using the IDMS 15.4 and ISO 21118 standards, respectively, according to Epson. The EX3212 uses a 200-watt UHE E-TORL lamp (Epson's own lamp technology). The company says this lamp lasts up to 5,000 hours in ECO Mode and 4,000 hours in Normal Mode. These numbers are fairly average for Epson projectors. When purchasing a projector, the lamp lifetime is an important concern because replacing the lamp can be pricey (this is no ordinary light bulb). Replacement lamps can run the gamut depending on the type you need, but expect to spend between $100 and $200 for one. Lamp life can also vary based on the type of viewing modes used and in what type of setting it's used. As Epson notes in its product literature, the lamp brightness will decrease over time. The EX3212 comes with one 2-watt speaker, so the same as the 1751. If you want a multimedia projector with powerful built-in audio, take a look at Epson's MegaPlex models. Those come with two 10-watt speakers built in, although they are much heavier than the EX3212. It's just the price you have to pay for a louder audio system. If you're going to use this projector in a large environment like a lecture hall, and will require audio, consider using an external audio source. The fan noise is 29 dB in ECO Mode and 37 dB in Normal Mode, according to Epson -- pretty typical for the company's projectors. No wireless capabilities are listed for this model. There are several inputs: computer/component video: Mini D-sub HD 15 pin; S-video, composite video: RCA; audio in: HDMI; Type A USB connector; and Type B USB connector. If you're not sure of the differences between Type A and Type B USB ports, here's a mini lesson: Type A looks like a rectangle and is the kind that you'll use with a memory stick. Type B looks like a square and is used for connecting other computer peripherals, such as a mouse. Because the EX3212 does have the Type A connector, you will not be required to use a computer for presentations. You can store your files on a memory stick or hard drive, connect it to the EX3212, and carry on. The power consumption is listed at 283 watts in Normal Mode and 234 in ECO Mode. The EX3212 comes with Kensington's lock provision (a commonly found hole meant for use with Kensington's popular locking systems), which is found in most Epson projectors. It also comes with a password protect function, just like the VS-200. (You can read more about the VS-200 by clicking here.) The lens has a digital zoom with a manual focus. This article from About.com's Camcorder site explains the differences between optical and digital zooms. The zoom ratio is listed at 1.0 - 1.35. A one-year limited warranty is included for the projector, which is a year short of most of the PowerLite projectors. The lamp is under a 90-day warranty (this is similar). Epson also says that the projector is covered under its Road Service Program, which promises to overnight ship a replacement projector - for free -if something is wrong with yours. Fine print aside, this sounds like a good promise for road warriors. Included in the box: VGA cable, remote control with batteries, USB cable, power cable, and the software and user manual CDs. It also comes with a soft carrying case. The remote can also be used at a distance of up to 19 feet, Epson says, and it features the following functions: Source search selection, power, volume, e-zoom, A/V mute, freeze, menu, page up and down, help, auto, mouse functions There is no mention of Color Modes. It does have automatic vertical keystone correction. Horizontal keystone correction is done manually. Other features include a sleep mode and Direct Power On/Off, which lets you set it so you can turn the projector on and off with a wall switch. The 1771W also has these features. The MSRP for the EX3212 is $449, so it's among the most basic projectors you can get from Epson - both in terms of price and features. If you're determined to get a full-sized projector because a pico just won't meet your display needs, this is an affordable option. Its inclusion of a USB Type A port is a useful addition.