May 16 2014 - For those looking at getting a smaller laptop system, the nubmer of options is growing thanks to AMD's new ultra-low power A4 platform. The MSI S12T takes advantage of this to actually offer a decent alternative to Intel based systems but it doesn't quite reach Intel's level of performance. It is nice to see MSI include a larger hard drive for those that need space. The system even has the ability to have the memory upgraded and a mSATA SSD drive added but doing so will likely void your warranty. The 11-inch touchscreen display is also better for using outdoors although it still has some issue with viewing angles.

May 16 2014 - The MSI S12T is an interesting compact laptop design. It is very lightweight at just 2.9 pounds but it is still relatively thick and 1.2-inches at the hinge. This is different than many of the other 11-inch ultrabook class laptops that it could potentially compete with. The thicker size does give it the benefit of having more peripheral ports at least. In terms of construction, the lid of the display is covered with a brush aluminum that gives it a more premium feel on the exterior but the remainder of the system is a mix of white and black plastics.

Rather than using an Intel processor for the S12T, MSI has elected to use the AMD A4-5000 quad core mobile processor. Now this is a low voltage processor that is designed to use less power and while it has four cores, the processor generally falls below an Intel Pentium 2117U dual core processor from Intel. Even though it may have less performance, if your primary use for the laptop is to browse the web, watch media and use productivity applications it should be sufficient. The processor is matched up with 4GB of DDR3 memory which works well enough with Windows 8 but it can slow down if users multitask frequently.

One area that the MSI S12T 3M-006US is different from other low cost laptops is the storage. It still does not use a solid state drive even though there is an internal mSATA slot for a small SSD stick. The difference is that it uses a larger 750GB hard drive that provides it with fifty percent more storage space than the typical laptop in this price range. It does offer a slightly improved performance but it still is not going to be much as the drive does spin at 5400rpm rate. If you need additional space, there is a single USB 3.0 port on the left hand side. Like many of the smaller laptops, there is no optical drive so if you need a CD or DVD burner, you will need to get an external unit or look at a different and probably larger laptop.

Much of the small size in the MSI S12T is because of the 11.6-inch LCD panel. It features your typical 1366x768 display resolution common to most budget systems but it looks better than larger panels because of its higher pixel density. It still looks less detailed than most tablets that still use higher resolution panels. The screen is fully multi-touch compliant for use with Windows 8 multitouch features. The panel is nice and bright but it has some really awful vertical viewing angles which means you have to get the panel angle just right for viewing the screen. The graphics for the system are handled by the AMD Radeon HD 8330 graphics that are build into the AMD A4 processor. It may sound impressive but the actual performance is quite limited. This is not something for 3D gaming even at a casual level but at least it does provide some acceleration for non-3D applications.

Even though the 11-inch display offers a limited amount of space for a keyboard, MSI has taken almost the full width of the system for the keyboard which is nice. This combined with the isolated key layout actually offers a nice overall feel even if it might be hard to use with larger fingers due ot the key sizes. It is nice to see that most of the keys like shift, tab, and enter are still quite large ratehr than shrinking them for other keys. Some of the keys do reside on the right hand side though that shift the backspace and enter key in a bit. The trackpad is smaller due to the limited size of the laptop but the problem is more about its accuracy and limited software adjustments than its actual size. Mutltitouch gestures have problems in particular but thankfully there is a touchscreen to compensate. It does use dedicated mouse buttons instead of integrated ones.

Now the battery for the MSI S12T is quite small due to the limited size of the laptop. MSI claims that it can last around five hours with normal usage and four hours of HD video playback. In my digital video playback testing, it was able to run for just over three and three quarter hours. This puts it pretty much in the same average running time as the majority of the laptops in this price category. At least the battery is removable which is becoming less common with compact laptops.

Pricing for the MSI S12T 03-006US is roughly between $450 to $500. Most of the competing laptops at this price point is much larger but there are some older ultraportables that offer a very similar set of profiles including the ASUS VivoBook Q200E which can be found for right around $500. It is an older laptop that uses a previous generation Intel Core i3-3217U dual core processor but it actually offers better performance and actually even has a slightly better battery life. It is even thinner than the MSI but weighs over three pounds. The big drawback is that its screen brightness is much less than the MSI making it more difficult to use out outdoors or in conditions with lots of glare. The ASUS also only features a 500GB hard drive.