Solid state drives are going to see some big growth in the coming year thanks to some new technologies. But even those with older computers can benefit by replacing their hard drive with a faster solid state drive. Find out more about how this storage technology will eventually replace the hard drive as your primary storage.

Normally summer is when a lot of companies refresh their budget laptop lineups in preparations for the back to school sales. This year it looks like the companies will be pushing the Chromebooks heavily and ignoring or doing minor refreshes of their current budget models. The result is fewer options for those wanting a traditional Windows based laptop for under $500. If you are in the market for a new low cost laptop, find out what laptops I think are best for a variety of different uses or tasks in my updated Best Budget Laptop PCs.

An easy way for a company to produce a new low cost laptop is to essentially take an existing design and tweak it. This is exactly what Toshiba elected to do by taking the previous Satellite C55 chassis and putting the new AMD low power platform inside of it. One would expect that because it has low costs to adapt an existing design they might be able to improve some of the internal components. But was the choice to use an older and larger chassis a good one for a chip designed for smaller and power limited situations? Find out in my review of the Toshiba Satellite C55Dt-A5148 laptop.

It is interesting to see a large number of laptops being released with AMD's new low voltage mobile processors but it is surprising that the majority of them are large screen laptops. The purpose is primarily for compact, low power requirements such as ultrathin and compact laptops. Thankfully companies like MSI are actually providing some options that the platform was originally designed for. But can the 11-inch laptop using the new AMD quad core low voltage processor compete with entrenched offerings based on Intel processors? Find out in my review of the MSI S12T 3M-006US laptop.

One of the reasons that computer sales have been lagging lately is that many people find that their old computers are good enough. This is also one of the primary reasons that many new computers are looking to use more energy efficient processors that provide enough performance but can help them reduce costs by using smaller batteries or extend their running time. But what if you want a low cost computer that also offers some good performance and doesn't skimp on features? Find out in my review of the Lenovo G410 might be the kind of laptop to fill that role.