Lenovo makes a wide variety of ultraportable laptops, but the IdeaPad U110 stands out from the others with its bright red aluminum cover with etched pattern. It certainly is a very durable and attractive laptop. With very small dimensions and strong battery life, it is a very good ultraportable. The system is plagued through with a relatively high price tag, performance dragged down by its slow hard drive and a screen that can be unbearable to look it in certain conditions.

9/12/08 - Lenovo's IdeaPad U110 certainly is one of the few ultraportable laptops to use an 11.1-inch screen compared to the much more popular 12.1 and 13.3-inch models. This gives the system a much smaller overall footprint that is very attractive to those needing to travel with a laptop frequently. It also has a bright red aluminum cover with an etched design that breaks away from the ThinkPad's more traditional black designs.

On the whole, the IdeaPad U110 is a very sturdy laptop. The aluminum cover and magnesium frame give it a very durable feel. This combined with an extremely popular keyboard that has almost no flex make it a system that should last for some years to come.

Performance should be strong thanks to the Intel Core 2 Duo L7500 dual core processor. Combined with the 2GB of PC2-5300 DDR2 memory, it runs Vista smoothly. The problem is that the 120GB hard drive has a very slow 4200rpm spin rate. This causes things to get much slower than systems with 5400rpm drives whenever it needs to access data from the drive.

The 11.1-inch screen on the IdeaPad U110 is very bright with its LED backlighting, but the coating causes issues. It uses a glossy panel with overcoating that ends up being extremely reflective. This causes light glare and reflections to get in the way of the screen. Over extended periods of use this gets very frustrating and causes eye fatigue. They should have focused a bit more on anti-reflective coatings.

Finally there is the price. The base price of the IdeaPad U110 may be lower than the ThinkPad X300, but it is still very high for many consumers to really consider compared to some lower priced alternatives.