As with the launch of every new Galaxy device since the incredibly popular S2, Samsung fans have been speculating wildly for months over what killer features would set the S5 apart from the rest. And whilst it may not have the rumoured metal unibody, nor the Snapdragon 805 processor, the Galaxy S5 is definitely one of the best phones available, even if it isn't the best looking. Galaxy fans will no doubt love it, but have Samsung done enough to quieten, and perhaps entice, iPhone and HTC One users?

Despite rumours of a metal body circulating before launch, Samsung has stuck with a design for the S5 which is almost identical to that of the S4. This means the thin, plastic battery cover is back, albeit with a faux dimpled leather look, along with a metal edge and bezel around the screen. Why Samsung didn't go for a metal unibody could be down to cost, or it could simply be a case of "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". Of course, the good thing about having a removable battery cover, rather than enclosing everything is a single piece of metal, is that we also get a removable battery.

The battery cover fits very tightly, and in fact can be a bit fiddly to attach. This is due to the fact that it has a rubber seal attached to it, an essential part of the waterproofing the S5 boasts, which has to be carefully lined up. The other most noticeable difference in the design is the addition of a cover which fits over the micro USB port. Again, this is a part of the waterproofing. Aside from these few changes, and a slight squaring of the corners, the S5 really does look very similar to its predecessor.

The camera lens on the back protrudes slightly, and there are a couple of extra sensors next to the flash, but in terms of new design, there is little to see here. The power button, volume rocker and home button all remain the same, although there has been a slight change to the capacitive buttons. Rather than a dedicated menu button to the left of the home button (which also houses the fingerprint scanner), Samsung has decided to go for a multi-tasking button. It can still be used as a menu button if held, but it doesn't feel all that intuitive to use.

At first glance it might seem that there has been little improvement in the 5.1inch S5 display. Compare the stats with those of the Galaxy S4, and it would seem that a step backward has actually been taken. However, compare the actual phones side-by-side and it is instantly obvious that the S5 has not only a bigger screen, but one which is also brighter, clearer and undeniably much more impressive. Samsung has clearly made improvements to the Super AMOLED technology, so while the resolution remains at 1080 x 1920, and pixel density actually drops slightly to 432ppi, the S5 display is a streets ahead of that seen on the S4.

Everything viewed on the S5 screen is crisp and sharp, from the text in the browser to movies and photos. As well as the standard brightness adjustment, there are also several different screen modes to choose from which subtly alter the display for different functions. These include cinema and professional photo, but even if you never fiddle with these settings, the display is sure to impress.

After listening to customer feedback on the previous Galaxy model, Samsung promised that the new phone would be less packed with gimmicky features and bloatware apps. And while this certainly seems to be at least partly true, I can't help wondering how many users will get much use from the heart rate monitor or the Geo News feature (which warns you of extreme weather and natural disasters). I can understand the fingerprint scanner at least, as this seems to be a technology which we will be seeing more of in our everyday lives. It works really quite well and unlocking your phone just by stroking your finger over the home button is, a least initially, very cool. It will be interesting to see if any app developers produce apps which can take advantage of this feature, to make it more than just a way of unlocking the phone or confirming payment in PayPal.

The S Health app has had a overhaul, allowing users to not only check their heart rate by holding their finger over the sensor on the back of the phone, but to count daily steps, track a run or cycle route, and even be given exercise goals based on the information you enter. There are certainly apps which handle these features better individually, but as a one stop shop, S Health is a convenient way of managing your exercise routine.

Another new, and much shouted about, feature is the ultra power saving mode. This is designed to keep the phone on and usable for basic functions, such as calls and text messages, when your battery level is getting low. Rather than turn on automatically at a specified level, ultra power saving mode is user activated, and upon doing so the screen changes to grey scale, available apps are reduced to just a handful and background data is disabled. I enabled it with a battery level of 73% and it indicated a standby time of 9 days, although this is bound to be reduced if you use mobile data features.

There are several other notable software additions to the S5, including private mode, safety assistance (which sends a emergency message at the press of the power button), toolbox and download booster, but all in all, it does seem that the selection of software has been better thought through, with the user in mind, rather than adding apps for the sake of adding apps.

The 16MP camera on the Galaxy S5 is currently one of the most powerful on the market. A good quality lens is further improved by great camera software. This new software includes several interesting new features, including real time HDR mode, selective focus and video stabilization. The number of camera modes pre-installed has actually been reduced from the S4, but it is possible to download more than those initially available. Modes include Beauty Face, Shot & More, and the obligatory Panorama.

Autofocus is incredibly fast, with Samsung claiming it will work in less that 0.3 seconds. This certainly seems to be the case in my tests, with several shots focusing almost instantly. Selective focus, another of the key features Samsung have been shouting about, is less impressive. Designed to give the professional effect of blurring the background of a photo whilst keeping the subject in focus, when the effect worked, it worked well. There were, however, several occasions when it simply couldn't understand what the focus of the photo should be.

The spec sheet for the Galaxy S5 makes for impressive reading, even if early rumours of a more powerful processor turned out to be untrue. With a 2.5GHz quad-core cpu, a dedicated GPU, 2GB of Ram and a powerful 2800mAh battery, this was never going to be a slouch when it came to benchmarking. However, despite great scores in a number of tests, there are times when the S5 seems to struggle. Opening the camera can sometimes takes several seconds, as can opening the gallery app for some strange reason. It also seems to take a while to warm up out of sleep mode, becoming more responsive the more you use it. Whether this has something to do with power-saving measures, I really don't know, but it is a little annoying at times.

Those Samsung Galaxy fans expecting a radical redesign or ultra-powerful hardware may be a little disappointed with the way the phone has turned out, but there is no doubt that Samsung have created a considered and less gimmicky device in the S5. It includes some clever, useful and fun features, and everything it does, it does well. It may not be the best looking phone ever made, but the Samsung Galaxy S5 is a worthy, if slightly subdued, successor to the S4, and I have no doubt will sell extremely well.