The iPad may be dismissed as simply a consumption device in Microsoft commercials, but out here in the "real world", there are plenty of productive uses for the iPad. In fact, one reason why Microsoft may be feeling the heat is the number of businesses that are experimenting with bringing the iPad into the enterprise. But one thing the iPad doesn't do out of the box is offer the same quick and easy typing as is available on a PC with a keyboard. Fortunately, it is very easy to connect a keyboard to the iPad. You can even connect a musical keyboard to the iPad if you so desire, though that might not help solve the typing dilemma. There are four different solutions and one alternative to hooking the iPad up to a keyboard, and we'll look at each to examine the pros and cons.

The most simple and direct approach is to use a wireless keyboard. Right out of the box, the iPad is compatible with most wireless keyboards. This includes those not specifically marked for the iPad, though to be safe, you should always check for compatibility. Apple's wireless keyboard has long been used for the iMac and Mac Mini, and it works perfectly fine for the iPad. It's also sturdy and relatively small, but it is also one of the more expensive wireless keyboards. Can be used with the iPhone, iPad or any device that supports Bluetooth keyboards. Easy to leave behind when you don't need it. Not as mobile as some alternatives You will need to pair the keyboard with the iPad.

If you want to use your iPad like a laptop, why not turn it into a laptop? There are plenty of keyboard cases on the market offering different solutions to the typing problem. The keyboard case might seem a little counter intuitive, taking the tablet right out of the iPad, but it really isn't much different than hooking a laptop into a docking station to make it act more like a desktop while at work. Good mobility with no need to carry around a separate keyboard. Provides protection for the iPad in addition to faster typing. With many keyboard cases, you'll find yourself removing the case to go into pure tablet mode. You may still need a regular case if you often take the iPad out of the keyboard case. More expensive than other solutions.

Did you know you can hook up most wired (USB) keyboards to the iPad? The iPad's Camera Connection Adapter may be advertised as a solution for getting pictures from your camera to your iPad, but it actually works well with many USB devices, including keyboards. If you have a fancy keyboard with a lot of special keys, you might have an issue, but usually, this just means those keys won't work. The alpha-numeric portion of the keyboard sends standardized signals to the iPad, so it should work fine. You can use an old keyboard or buy a very cheap wired keyboard. No need to pair devices via Bluetooth. You will need the Camera Connection Kit, which retails for $29. You won't be able to plug your iPad in while using the keyboard, so power consumption becomes an issue.

Touchfire has created a keyboard that's not a keyboard. Designed to work with Apple's Smart Cover and Smart Case, the Touchfire keyboard is a transparent silicon pad that fits over the iPad's onscreen keyboard, giving it the same type of texture and feel you might expect from a real keyboard. This is great for touch typists who miss the tactile feel of keys beneath their fingertips, and because the keyboard pad is designed to stick to the underside of the Smart Cover, it is the most mobile of the keyboard solutions. There are other solutions that cover the on-screen keyboard to give you a real keyboard feel, but the Touchfire solution is the most elegant. Very mobile and easy to go from using it to not using it, which means your tablet can remain a tablet. Sticks to the Smart Cover, so you'll always have it with you. No more wishing you'd brought your wireless keyboard. Still uses the on-screen keyboard, so you lose a chunk of your screen space. Not the same as a real keyboard, so while you'll type faster with the Touchfire, you may not hit the same blazing speed as a wireless keyboard or keyboard case.

Who needs a keyboard? One nice benefit of Siri is the ability to utilize the voice recognition anytime you would normally use the keyboard. Simply push the microphone button and start talking. This isn't the best solution for heavy use, but if you just occasionally wish you could input a large chunk of text without hunting and pecking on that on-screen keyboard, voice recognition might do the trick. And because Siri is free, no need to spend actual money. The iPad 3, iPad 4, iPad Air, iPad Mini and iPad Mini 2 all support Siri. Voice recognition is available almost anytime the on-screen keyboard is displayed. It's free with any iPad that supports Siri. You probably won't want to write a novel with it. You have to sound out punctuation. If you have a thick accent, it can translate as random letters or incorrect words.