Blizzard is known for producing fun, engaging and well-polished games, so it doesn't come as too much of a surprise that they've hit a home run with Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. Entering the increasingly competitive arena of collectible card games, Hearthstone manages to be easy to pick up and play while delivering all of the deeper strategy we've come to expect when doing battle with cards. If you are looking for a fun alternative to Magic: The Gathering or Ascension: Chronicle of the Godslayer, you've found it.

Blizzard didn't waste any time climbing to the top of the collectible card game genre. Hearthstone has all of the deck-building strategy we've come to expect from the best card battle games, but also manages to be simple enough with a well-executed tutorial that even newbies to the genre will be able to pick it up and play without much problem.

When you first launch the game, you'll be presented with a set of missions that introduce the basic game play in easy-to-understand bite-sized nuggets. These individual battles are easy to defeat, each teaching a new lesson about the game mechanics. But the true lessons won't come until you've wandered into the practice mode and multiplayer battles, where you'll learn the underlying strategies hidden beneath the game's mechanics.

Like most card battle games, the object of the game is to reduce your opponent's health to zero. Each turn you'll have the option of sending your spells and minions against your opponent's army, or aim them directly at your opponent. So what's to stop you from constantly firing at the enemy? Some minions have the Taunt skill, which requires you to attack that minion before attacking anything else, while other minions have special powers you want to eliminate from the battleground, and still others are simply too good of targets to pass up.

You'll complete the tutorial with your chosen class unlocked, and you can unlock the others in Practice mode. Practice mode is also where you'll test out new decks, hone your skills, and after unlocking all classes, gain a set of bonus cards.

As with any good collectible card game, the cards are the carrot. You can gain cards in a variety of ways, including common cards won through multiplayer matches. Gold will buy an elite package of random cards from the store, and you can also get these card packs by completing quests. You can also gain gold and card packs in the arena, but perhaps the coolest way is through crafting. Non-common cards can be turned into magic dust, which can then be used to forge new cards of your choosing. The sheer variety in cards and all the different ways to acquire them help keep you planted on your couch, playing game after game.

Another nice addition to the game is the arena. You'll need to buy your way into the arena with either gold or an in-app purchase, and once inside, you'll choose a class and then assemble a deck filled with random cards. This process is rather neat. You'll be presented with three random cards, choosing one to put in your deck. Rinse and repeat thirty times and you'll have your own random deck. This creates a nice bit of variety to the game, as you'll need to think in terms of strategy based on which cards pop up in your deck.

The Best RPGs on the iPad

You can continue paying in the arena until you've lost three times, with each win racking up your eventual rewards. After you are done, it's time to unlock your reward, which can be anything from gold to magic dust to elite card packs.

But it is the card battle itself that really impresses. Each of the nine classes have their own flavor, with some better at keeping you alive, others better at summoning and enhancing an army, and others best at dealing direct damage. Each class has a special power that requires two mana, so even if you don't have the right cards to play, you'll have a move at your disposal.

And best of all, there are plenty of different strategies you can employ to defeat your foe. Perhaps you'll go for creating creatures with Taunt to keep your enemy from you, or maybe you'll combine spells that enhance attack with enchantments that provide the Whirlwind skill, which allows a creature to attack twice in a round.

This makes putting the best deck together almost as addicting as the game itself, which, of course, is expected in a good collectible card game.

Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft is a free download on the App Store, with in-app purchases unlocking new cards through expert packs.

Play More: The Best Collectible Card Games on the App Store