1080i1080i represents video resolution in terms of... 1080p1080p represents video resolution in terms of... 16x916x9 refers to the aspect ratio of an HDTV screen...read more 3LCD3LCD is a technology used in video projection that... 480i480i represents video resolution in terms of... 480p480p represents video resolution in terms of... 4K Resolution4K refers to a high definition video resolution that is... 720p720p represents video resolution in terms of... 8K Resolution8K resolution represents 7680 x 4320 pixels (4320p) and is effectively 16 times more detailed than a 1080p resolution TV. Read more... Analog TelevisionRead an explanation of what Analog Television is... Aspect RatioAspect Ratio describes the relationship between the horizontal and vertical dimensions of a screen or image...read more ATSCATSC is the foundation of digital television and HDTV...read more Audio Return Channel (ARC)Find out what Audio Return Channel is and how it can make your TV and Home Theater Receiver connect more efficiently... Audyssey DSXAudyssey DSX (Dynamic Surround Expansion) is a surround sound format that adds...read more AV Receiver (see also Home Theater Receiver, Surround Sound Receiver)Learn what an AV Receiver (see also Home Theater Receiver, Surround Sound Receiver) is... AVCHDAVCHD (Advanced Video Codec High Definition) is digital video recording format that...read more BitstreamLearn what the term Bitstream means, as applied to home theater... Blu-rayBlu-ray is a high-definition video disc format that...read more Blu-ray Region CodeAn explanation of the Blu-ray Disc Region Code system. CDCD stands for Compact Disc...read more CESFind out what CES is and why it is important for the consumer electronics industry... Circle SurroundCircle Surround is an audio processing format from SRS Labs that...read more Cloud ServicesWe have been hearing a lot about "the Cloud" and "Cloud music services", but  what is "the Cloud?"...read more Component Video ConnectionA Component Video Connection is....read more Composite Video ConnectionThe Composite Video Connection has been with us for decades, but what is it?...read more Continuous Power (RMS)Continuous Power (RMS) is one way that amplifier power output is measured...read more Contrast RatioThe term "Contrast Ratio" get tossed around a lot with reference to TVs and video projectors. Find out what it is and isn't... D-ILAD-ILA is a technology used in video projectors...read more Decibels (db)Find out what Decibels and why they are important in the listening experience... Digital Coaxial ConnectionA Digital Coaxial Connection is a type of audio connection made between a source component and a home theater receiver, or audio processor...read more Digital Optical ConnectionA Digital Optical Connection is a type of connection that transfers audio signals via light...read more Distortion (THD)We all know distortion when we hear it - but what is it?...read more DLPDLP is a technology that is used in video projectors and projection TVs...read more DMD (Digital Micro-Mirror Device)The DMD (Digital Micro-Mirror Device) is the core component of DLP video projection technology...read more Dolby AtmosDolby Atmos is a surround sound format that is capable of supplying up to 64-channels...read more Dolby DigitalDolby Digital is the most common surround sound format is use by consumers - find out what it is... Dolby Digital EXDolby Digital EX is an extension of Dolby Digital that provides an extra...read more Dolby Digital PlusDolby Digital Plus is a surround sound decoding format that extends the sound field up to...read more Dolby Pro-Logic IIPro-Logic II is an audio processing format from Dolby that can extract a 5.1 channel sound field from two channel source content...read more Dolby Pro-Logic IIxDolby Pro-Logic IIx is an expansion of the Pro-Logic II that...read more Dolby ProLogic IIzProLogic IIz is an extension of Dolby surround sound processing that adds...read more Dolby TrueHDDolby TrueHD is a surround sound encoding and decoding format that was originally designed for Blu-ray Disc...read more DRM - Digital Rights Management - Definition and ExplanationDigital Rights Management (DRM) is copyright protection that limits the sharing and prohibits copying of songs and videos. Find how this affects consumers in our report. DTSDTS refers to both a company and a group of surround sound formats...read more DTS 96/24Find out what DTS 96/24 is and what it means for the audio listening experience... DTS Neo:6Neo:6 is a surround sound processing format from DTS that can extract up to 6.1 channels of audio from a two-channel content source...read more DTS Neo:XDTS Neo:X is a surround sound processing format that expands the sound field up to 11.1 channels...read more DTS-ESDTS-ES is an extension of DTS 5.1, and comes in two flavors, read more... DTS-HD - DTS-HD Master AudioDTS-HD Master Audio is a high definition digital-based surround sound format, originally developed for the Blu-ray Disc format, that supports up to 8-channels of surround decoding...read more DTV - Digital TVFind out what DTV is and how it is different from analog TV... Dual DiscFind out what a Dual Disc is... DVDDVD is all around us, but what does DVD actually stand for... DVD RecorderA DVD recorder is standalone device that can record DVDs, but there is more to the story... DVD Region CodeDefinition of the term: DVD Region Code DVD+RDVD+R is one of several DVD recording formats - check out the details... DVD+R DLDVD+R DL is a variation of the DVD+R DVD recording format that adds... DVD+RWDVD+RW is a variation of the DVD+R recording format that gives the discs the capability of... DVD-AudioDVD-Audio is a high definition audio disc format that borrows upon technologies developed for both CD and DVD...read more DVD-RDVD-R is the most common DVD recording format, check out the details... DVD-R DLDVD-R DL is a variation of the DVD-R recording format that adds... DVD-RAMDVD-RAM is DVD recording format that has characteristics that make it different from other DVD recording formats...read more DVD-RWDVD-RW is a variation of the DVD-R recording format that add the capability to... DVI - Digital Visual InterfaceDVI is type of video connection that... DVRDVR stands for Digital Video Recorder. Find out more... Dynamic CompressionFind out what Dynamic Compression is... Dynamic HeadroomDynamic Headroom is an audio specification that... Dynamic RangeDynamic Range is an audio specification that tells you what... EDTVYou know about DTV and HDTV, but what is EDTV? Read more... Ethernet Connection - see also LAN ConnectionEthernet connections play an important part in home theater these days. Check out the details... HD-DVDHD-DVD stands for High Definition DVD. Find out what you need to know... HDCD (High Definition Compatible Digital)HDCD (High Definition Compatible Digital) is an extension of the capabilities of the CD format that... HDCPHDCP stands for High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection - check out the details... HDMIHDMI is now the most common connection protocol used in home theater, but do you know what HDMI stands for and what it does?...read more HDMI 1.3 and 1.3aThere are different versions of HDMI. Find out what versions 1.3 and 1.3a do... HDMI 1.4 and 1.4aHDMI 1.4 and 1.4a are major upgrades to the HDMI connection protocol...read more HDTVHDTV stands for High Definition TV, but there is more to the story...read more Home TheaterFind out Home Theater really is... Home Theater Receiver (see also AV Receiver, Surround Sound Receiver)Find out hwat Home Theater Receiver (see also AV Receiver, Surround Sound Receiver) is and what it can do for you... Home Theater-in-a-BoxFind out what a Home Theater-in-a-Box is... HTPCHTPC stands for Home Theater PC or Media Center PC...read more Image Constraint TokenIf you own a Blu-ray Disc player, or subscribe to high definition cable or satellite, you need to know what an Image Constraint Token is...read more Interlaced ScanInterlaced Scan is one way TV and video signals are transmitted and displayed - check out the details... LANLAN - Local Area Network Connection...read more or see also Ethernet. LCD TelevisionLCD TVs are the most common TV is use today, but what do you know about them...read more LCOSLCOS is a technology used in some video projectors...read more LFELFE stands for Low Frequency Effects...read the details LoudspeakerYou need a loudspeaker to hear sound, find out more... Media File CompressionDefinition and Explanation of Media File Conversion MHL - What it is and how it impacts Home TheaterAn overview of MHL - The Mobile High Defintion Link. MiracastLearn about Miracast wireless connectivity. Network-EnabledMany Blu-ray Disc players, TVs, and other home theater components are network-enabled...read more NTSCNTSC is the analog video standard used in the U.S. and several other countries. Check out the details... OLEDOLED stands for Organic Light-Emitting Diode - but what does that mean exactly? Read more... PALPAL is an analog video and TV transmission format used in most of the World - check out the details... PCMPCM stands for Pulse Code Modulation - find out more... PixelFind out what a Pixel is and why it is important in TV and Home Theater... Pixel DensityPixel Density is the number of pixels on a TV screen or video projector chip...read more Plasma TelevisionFind out what a Plasma Television is and the technology behind it... Power AmplifierFind out what a power amplifier is and how it is integration into a stereo or home theater system... PreamplifierFind what a Preamplifier is and its role in an audio or home theater system... Progressive ScanFind out what progressive scan is and how it can improve video quality... Rainbow EffectIf you own a DLP TV or video projector, you may have encountered the Rainbow Effect - Check out the details... Rear-Projection TelevisionDefinition Of Rear-Projection Television RF ModulatorDefinition of the term: RF Modulator S-VideoDefinition of the term: S-Video SACDDefinition of the term: SACD SCART (Syndicat des Constructeurs d'Appareils Radiorecepteurs et Televiseurs)The SCART Connection is a common audio/video cable used throughout Europe and UK for connecting DVD players, VCRs, and other components to Televisions. Screen Door EffectDefinition of the Screen Door Effect SECAMSECAM is an analog video and TV transmission format used primarily in France - read more... Selectable Output ControlFind out what Selectable Output Control is and why it may be important in your home theater setup... ShowroomingYou may be a "showroomer" - Find out what Showrooming is and its effects on the consumer electronics industry... Signal-To-Noise Ratio (S/N)Signal-To-Noise Ratio (S/N) is an important specification to pay attention to in audio...read more. SRS Tru-SurroundTru-Surround is an audio processing format from SRS Labs that can produce a surround sound field by using just two speakers...check out more. SubwooferSubwoofers are very important component in home theater systems - find out what it is... Surround SoundThe term "surround sound" gets tossed around a lot, but what is it, exactly?...read more. Surround Sound Receiver ( AV Receiver, Home Theater Receiver)Find out what a Surround Sound Receiver (AV Receiver, Home Theater Receiver) is, and what its role is in home theater... SXRDSXRD is a video projection technology utilized by Sony in most of their video projectors...check out the details. TIVOHave you ever TIVO'd a TV show? If not find out what it is... TOSLINKTOSLINK is another way to describe a Digital Optical Connection...read more. TranscodingDefinition of Transcoding UpscalingUpscaling is one aspect of video processing that has become an important part of the home theater experience...read more. VCDVCD stands for Video Compact Disc, read more... VHSVHS has been around for over thirty years, but do you know what it stands for?...read more. Y, Cb, CrHave you seen video connections labeled Y,Cb,Cr? Find out what it means. Y, Pb,PRFind out what it means when a video connection is labeled: Y,Pb,PR. Zone 2The Definition and explanation of what Zone 2 means in home theater.