iPad Tricks: The Hidden Secrets of Your iPad Revealed

Did you know there are hidden controls on your iPad that can control music and video playback? Or that the task bar can be used to switch between apps? Or that apps can quickly be found using spotlight search without having to search through pages and pages of app icons? And these are just a few tricks to getting the most out of your iPad.

How to Sort Your iPad Apps Alphabetically

Did you know you can sort your iPad apps alphabetically? It's not a true feature of iOS, but there is a little known trick that can sort your apps.

9 Fun iPad Tricks

Did you know you can control your PC with your iPad, use your iPad as a second monitor or even control games on your iPad using your body as the controller? These neat iPad tricks may not exactly stun and amaze your friends, but they'll at least help you get more out of your iPad.

How to Open the iPad Task Bar

Did you know you can switch between iPad apps using the task bar? Or that there are hidden music controls on the iPad? Find out all about the iPad's task bar.

The iPad's Hidden Music Controls Revealed

The iPad's hidden music controls can be accessed through the task bar and provides a quick way to skip songs, adjust brightness and activate AirPlay.

How to Use the Multitasking Bar on the iPad

The iPad multitasking bar lets you switch between apps, close apps and even control the volume of your music and turn on AirPlay.

How to Copy a DVD to the iPad for Free

If you want to convert a DVD into an iPad-compatible file, you will need a DVD ripper and a way to convert the files into an MP4 file. Luckily, there are some great free options available to do this very thing.

How to Change the iPad Side Switch's Behavior

The iPad's side switch can be used to either mute the volume on the iPad or lock the orientation, which is great if you are holding the iPad at an odd angle.

How to Upload an iPad Photo to Twitter

Once you have your iPad connected to Twitter, it is actually rather easy to upload a photo for your followers to see.

How to Close All Tabs in Safari on the iPad

Leaving too many tabs open in your Safari browser can lead to performance issues on your iPad, luckily, there is a way to close them all at once.

How to Text on the iPad

Did you know you can use the iPad to text people? There are a number of solutions, including a few easy ways to place free text messages.

How to Find Your iPad's Model Number

The iPad's model number can help you determine which model of iPad you own. It can be found on the back case of the iPad.

How to Use Your iPad or iPad Mini as a Phone

The iPad may be too big to replace your cell phone, but it can place phone calls if you set up the right software on it. There are actually several different ways to place calls on the iPad, and in this article, we'll detail three popular ways to do it.

How to Zoom In and Zoom Out on an iPad



How to Choose Bing for Search on the iPad

You aren't stuck with Google on the iPad. If you prefer Bing or Yahoo as a search engine, it is actually quite easy to change the iPad's Safari browser to use them by default.

How to Change Siri's Voice to a Man's Voice

Siri has a very distinctive female voice, but it isn't the only voice available for Apple's voice recognition assistant. You can also have Siri with a man's voice. This quick tutorial teaches how to turn Siri into a man.

Great iPad Pranks to Pull on Friends

The iPad can be a great way to prank your friends and family, especially if they are quite addicted to their tablet.

How to Improve the iPad's Camera

The iPad isn't known for its great camera quality, but there is a simple way to greatly improve the quality of your photos. And best of all, it won't break the bank!

How to Expand the Storage on Your iPad

The iPad comes with a limited amount of storage, depending on which model you purchase. But don't worry, if you need more, there are several ways to expand that storage.

How to Use the Photon Flash Player on the iPad

The Photon Flash Player allows you to play Flash video and games on the iPad, but it isn't quite so simple as turning it on and off. We'll look at the different modes of the Flash browser to determine when it is best to be in a specific mode for playing back Flash.