Home Theater Tips - Info About Home Theater You May Not KnowHome Theater is becoming a popular term in today's culture, but what exactly is it? Home theater is a home entertainment option that provides the consumer with an exciting viewing and listening experience. However, what do you need to know in order get that experience? There is a lot of hype and confusion as to what you really need, and how much you have to spend, to enjoy home theater. Here are some useful home theater tips that will help cut through the hype and misconceptions. The About.com Home Theater Video Tip SeriesDon't want to wade through a lot of articles to find what you want? Then check out my home theater video tip series. 8 Tips for Putting Together a Great Home Theater on a BudgetAre you interested in putting together a home theater system, but think it would be too expensive? Check out some useful tips on putting a home theater system on a budget. 10  Essential Elements of a Home Theater SystemWhat goes into a typical home theater? Check out my tips on want you need to plan your own home theater system. 3D Home Theater Basics FAQ Introduction Page3D is the new buzzword in home theater, and depending on who talk to it is going to be either the greatest thing since sliced-bread or the biggest consumer electronics folly ever. Obviously, the real truth is somewhere in-between. For some basic answers about how 3D will impact the consumer, continue reading. Common Home Theater Mistakes and How To Avoid ThemAfter spending a lot of money and time to set up your home theate, something just doesn't seem right. Did you make any mistakes? To find out, check out some mistakes many of us commonly make when trying to put together a home theater system. Firmware Updates and Home Theater ComponentsAs consumer electronics get more complicated and the speed of technology changes quickly, the need to keep a product up-to-date has gotten more critical. Engineers have developed a way to keep pace with changes by making products with the ability to be updated with new or added features using firmware. Find out what firmware is and how it is used. Guide to Internet Home Theater and Network Media PlayersThe internet is quickly becoming an integral part of the home theater experience, but is also causing confusion for consumers as to how to add the internet to their home theater, what content is available for access, and if it is even worth the effort. Check out some basic tips that will get you started. Home Entertainment Basics and Product GuideCheck out my overview of home entertainment with an emphasis on basics and product suggestions. Home Theater as a money-saving option for entertainmentCheck out how a home theater system is actually a great way to save money for family entertainment. How Much Do I Really Need to Spend on a Home Theater?Home theater comes in all sizes and budgets. Find out how much to expect to pay for your own home theater system. Interact with Home TheaterCheck out more ways you can participate in the About.com Home Theater Site. Is HDTV Really Important for a Home Theater?Find out how HDTV figures into the home theater experience. Readers Voice and Comment - About.com Home TheaterParticipate in the About.com home theater page with your own contributions. Find out how. Should I Get a Video Projector or a Television?The decision as to whether to incorporate a Television or a video projector into a home theater depends on several factors, check out all the details you need to know. Surround Sound Formats GuideAll those surround formats can be confusing, but they don't have to be. Check out my easy-to-understand listing and guide to the commonly used surround sound formats. Symptoms of Home Theater AddictionDo you enjoy your home theater system? Of course you do! It is easy to get caught up in the latest in HDTV, surround sound, gadgets, and movies on DVD. However, when does periodic enjoyment of your home theater system begin to turn into an all-out addiction? If you find your home theater habit is taking up a lot of time, money, and space, you... Troubleshooting Your Home Theater SystemYou just finished setting up your home theater system and big-screen TV. You turn it on and....nothing happens. Just about all consumers, including us "'pros" have had moments like this. However, this doesn't mean that it is time pull out the cell phone and dial tech support or a repair man just yet. Before you reach for the phone there are some... What Is Home Theater and What Does It Do For Me?Home Theater a fast growing home entertainment option that is not as complicated as one might think. Find out what home theater is and what it can do to enhance your home entertainment experience. What Is Surround Sound and How do I Get it?Surround sound is the key element in the home theater audio experience. Find out what is it and how to incorporate it into your home theater system. What is Wireless Home Theater?Home Theater is a big part of the home entertainment scene in countless living rooms. However, one problem that plagues home theater are all the speaker wires and connection cables. Many think that installing wireless components is the answer. However, there is more to story... Top Home Theater Advances of the Decade (2000-2009)It is hard to believe that the first decade of the 21st century is almost at a close. It has been a significant decade not just in worl events, but in the plethora of technical advances that have made our lives both more complex and convenient (depending on your perspective). With that in mind, I have picked out what I feel were the major... Advances in Home Theater from 2000-2009 - Share Your ThoughtsIt is hard to believe that the first decade of the 21st century is almost at a close. It has been a significant decade not just in worl events, but in the plethora of technical advances that have made our lives both more complex and convenient (depending on your perspective). What that in mind, what do you think were the top advances in home theater from 2000 to 2009? Share your thoughts. You Know You Are Addicted to Your Home Theater When...Do you enjoy your home theater system? Of course you do! It is easy to get caught up in the latest in HDTV, surround sound, gadgets, and movies on DVD. However, when does periodic enjoyment of your home theater system begin to turn into an all-out addiction? If you find your home theater habit is taking up a lot of time, money, and space, you...