iPad Board Games: Dice, Board and Card Games for the iPad

The size and light weight of the iPad make it the perfect device for playing board games, with many great classics available like Risk and Monopoly. The iPad is also ideal for card games like Solitaire and dice games like Yahtzee.

Lords of Waterdeep Review

Lords of Waterdeep is a game of fantasy and intrigue based on the board game of the same name. A compelling mix of strategy and fun, the game will provide hours of entertainment to fans of the original and new fans alike.

Review: Kard Combat for iPad

Co-created by the designer of Magic: The Gathering, Kard Combat is a card collection game where you duel mages by combining earth, air, water and fire with your own specialized form of magic.

Profile: Words With Friends

Words With Friends is a word board game where you score points by spelling out words. Bonus points are earned for double and triple word scores, with more points being awarded for using rare letters. And as a turn-based game, you can play multiple games at once.

Profile: Risk HD

It's world domination on the iPad in the official Risk game. Battle the computer, battle your friends or take it to a different level with the all new Fixed ruleset.

Profile: Monopoly HD

Monopoly for iPad allows you to play in tabletop mode with friends around a table or online against friends, even if they only have the iPhone version. The board game also allows you to play with house rules and even has a teacher mode.

Review: Word Solitaire HD for the iPad

Word Solitaire HD is a great cross between Scrabble and Klondike Solitaire, with the ability to move letters from column to column and arrange them into words. The game comes with 20 free levels, with more available through an expansion pack.

Profile: Yahtzee HD for iPad

Yahtzee HD brings the classic board game to the iPad with multiple modes, including Battle Mode, Duplicate Mode and the iPad-exclusive Duplicate Rainbow Mode. You can even challenge your friends on Facebook or play against them on the same iPad with pass-n-play.

Profile: Shanghai Mahjong

The most popular iPhone Mahjong game goes universal with its addition that is designed for the iPhone and iPad. For those who love puzzle matching games, Mahjong has long been among the most addicting. And Shanghai Mahjong does a great job of combining the simplicity of the game with some beautifully rendered tiles.

Profile: Chess by Mastersoft Mobile Solutions

Chess by Mastersoft Mobile Solutions is not only a great Chess game on the iPad, it will also teach you to play a better game of Chess by offering hints and a look at the way the CPU thinks.

Profile: Boggle

Electronic Arts has brought the fun of tabletop Boggle to the iPad, enhancing it with new game modes like Advanced, where the letters in a chosen word switch places for more strategic play. You can even challenge your friends to a match via email.

Profile: Scrabble

Scrabble for the iPad is an authentic rendering of the classic word game. One of the most popular board games in the world, Scrabble for the iPad has features ranging from a teacher mode that will help you pick up your game to a party mode that lets you use your iPhone or iPod Touch as your tile rack.

Review: Duels of the Planeswalkers 2013 for iPad

Duels of the Planeswalkers produces an excellent version of Magic: The Gathering for the iPad, with the Wizards of the Coast game looking absolutely beautiful on the new iPad's Retina Display.

Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft Review

Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft is a new collectable card game from Blizzard, but does it live up to Blizzard's reputation of delivering high-quality, fun and engaging games? We'll examine just how well Hearthstone measures up to the competition.

4 Games Like Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft

Hearthstone is a fun card battle game, but outside of doing quests, gold comes at a pretty slow rate. If you want something to do in the downtime, check out these awesome games...