National Braille Press has expanded its line of iOS reference guides for readers who are blind or visually impaired. The latest book explores iOS 7 from the standpoint of one who uses VoiceOver, Apple's built-in screen reader.

I've been playing around with and writing a lot lately about the ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone. It's a throwback. You can text, but finding letters on number buttons brings back memories. I love the device's orientation that speaks everything aloud, making the phone fully accessible to seniors and persons with visual impairments. Making calls, managing contacts, and changing the settings are all easy tasks. The slider phone is also sleek and simple to use.

Many nervous trips to the ER or doctor's office end with reassuring words following a quick Q&A and check of vital signs. 

 Better safe than sorry, to be sure, but even better staying put, when possible. Technology enabling people to monitor vital signs and consult from home via video chat is becoming more prevalent -- great news for persons with mobility impairments. One product and platform in development is InstaMD: a dual-purpose headset and app for tracking and sharing vital signs with healthcare providers via the web. The headset attaches to a home stethoscope and amplifies sound up to 20x. You can upload recorded clips of heart, lung, or GI tract sounds and video chat with providers in real time. Clips are automatically archived and you can email links to the audio files. The web app works on any computer with Chrome, Firefox, or Internet Explorer. The mobile app currently works on iOS devices and will eventually support Android devices. According to InstaMD, the headset and app should be available this fall.

Smartphones and apps do amazing things, but many of us -- including seniors and persons who are visually impaired -- just want an inexpensive phone to make calls on and stay connected. The ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone is designed to be fully accessible to persons who are blind. It accomplishes this with a tactile number keypad, simple navigation, and text-to-speech that speaks aloud what's onscreen, the keys as you press them, and verbal prompts to aid orientation. There's no web access or third-party apps, but you can make calls, add contacts, and manage a call log -- all from a touch-tone-phone-style keypad. You can also send, receive, and listen to text messages, set alarms, and program up to 3 emergency numbers activated by simply pressing and holding any key for a few seconds. Like the Jitterbug J, the ODIN VI strikes that elusive balance between convenience and comfort.