The Compact 5 HD magnifies images from 1.5 to 18 times original size, making it one of the most powerful handheld CCTVs. The device is also one of the lightest, weighing 10.4 ounces and measuring 5.4 by 3.5 by 0.9 inches.

The "5" in Compact 5 refers to its 5-inch screen; the "HD" refers to "high definition," achieved through a lighting system that maintains an even image across different reading surfaces, including newsprint, glossy magazines, price tags, product packaging, and text on monitors and LCD displays.

Like other portable CCTVs, the Optelec Compact 5 HD helps persons with age-related macular degeneration , glaucoma , and other eye conditions when magnifying glasses no longer provide sufficient reading resolution.

The Optelec Compact 5 HD ($895)is a portable video magnifier -- similar to Enhance Vision's Pebble and Amigo -- that enables persons with visual impairments to enlarge text and images to make reading and viewing easier.

To use the Optelec 5 HD, place your fingers on the left and right markings on the back of the unit and lift up the screen.

Once open, the Optelec turns on automatically.

Adjust the magnification by pressing the blue + and - buttons located in the lower right corner of the screen. Base magnification is 1.5 times original size and zooms to 18X.

Adjust the 16 different color and background settings by pressing the Mode button located in the lower left corner of the screen.

The Optelec Compact 5 HD offers two reading positions. The screen can be tilted up to provide a comfortable angle for sustained reading -- which is ideal for gliding the unit over a book, magazine, or newspaper page.

With the screen closed, the HD can be used for both spot reading, e.g. a restaurant menu, and for enlarging images within 4 feet, such as an airport monitor.

To use the Compact 5 HD in the closed position, press the On/Off button located on the left side of the unit and adjust to desired color and magnification using the arrow and mode buttons.

When using the device for distance reading, glare sometimes hinders clarity, especially with text displayed on LCD screens. To solve this, press and hold the Mode button for three seconds to turn off the light.

The Optelec Compact 5 HD menu uses large, high-contrast icons to make it easier for low-vision users to set.

To access the Menu, simultaneously press the blue + and - arrow buttons.

Once activated, use the arrow buttons to cycle through and select settings for contrast, sounds, brightness, and power consumption.

Press the Mode button to confirm each setting selection.

The Compact 5 HD also functions as a digital camera. To take a picture, center the text or image in the screen and press the Photo button located on the right of the rear panel, i.e. the top, when holding the device like a camera.

Contact Optelec (800.826.4200) for more information and to arrange an in-home demonstration.