The iPhone Tactile ScreenShot Quick Reference Guide offers blind users status bar, home screen, and keypad orientation and makes built-in apps such as Calendar, Contacts, and iBooks easier to navigate.

Apple's iPhone has attracted a loyal following among blind and visually impaired users.

The phone comes with several assistive technologies - including the VoiceOver screen reader - built right in, while increasingly sophisticated apps that use the phone's camera to enable blind people to scan and read text or identify colors and currency.

The iOS device's popularity has prompted Boston-based National Braille Press to offer its third book in less than a year to help blind iPhone users.

In 2011, NBP published Getting Started with the iPhone: An Introduction for Blind Users and Twenty-Six Useful Apps for Blind iPhone Users.

The new iPhone Tactile Screenshot Quick References, presents tactile diagrams of various iPhone screens - such as the home screen, keypad, and status bar -- with accompanying details printed in braille and large print.

The raised representations are designed to orient blind and visually impaired users and make it easier to access and navigate the phone's main functions and built-in apps.

The iPhone features covered include Contacts, Calendar, iBooks, iTunes, and the App Store.

The book enables readers to explore the diagrams with one hand while the other gets a feel for the phone's buttons, icons, and controls. The iPhone Tactile Screenshot Quick Reference Guide also includes introductory information on using Siri, the voice-activated digital assistant introduced with the iPhone 4S.

Tom Dekker, a vocational rehabilitation trainer with special needs publisher Tactile Vision (Mississauga, ON), produced the book, which it sells through National Braille Press.

According to NBP, the tactile screen shots are designed to be used with other texts, such as Getting Started with the iPhone, by Anna Dresner and Dean Martineau.

Visit the NBP website or call 800.548.7323 for more information and to place orders.

Tactile Vision produces tactile books for the blind using a printing method that applies conventional inks and proprietary materials to cover stock to make raised image representations for such things as maps, science and math diagrams, and greeting cards.

Located in Boston, Massachusetts USA, National Braille Press (NBP) is a nonprofit publishing house founded in 1927 to ensure that blind people have the same access to information as sighted people in a medium they can read--braille. National Braille Press supports a lifetime of opportunity for blind children through braille literacy, and provides access to information that empowers blind people to actively engage in work, family, and community affairs. NBP has constituents in all 50 states, Canada, and overseas.