Technology addresses many daily challenges seniors face - from reading the mail to remembering if they've taken or reordered medication. Products that enlarge or read text aloud, signal mail delivery, automate tasks, or provide reminders can be all one needs to maintain independence. This section profiles technologies such as reading machines, smart pill bottles and medicine cabinets, talking clocks, thermostats, and blood-pressure meters, and voice-activated appliances.

ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone Charging, SIM Card, & Battery

The ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phones comes preinstalled with a battery (a charging stand and USB cables are included) and an SIM card.

ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone Settings

The ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone provides numerous settings that can make its display and menus more accessible to users with visual impairments.

ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone Texting

A large number pad with big, well-spaced buttons makes the ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone among the easiest on which to write and send text messages.

Call & Manage Contacts on the ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone

Once oriented with the ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone, a blind or visually impaired user can start calling, adding contacts, and checking the call log.

ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone Orientation

Text to speech and simple navigation with tactile buttons helps orient seniors and the visually impaired on this fully accessible cellphone.

ODIN VI Talking Mobile Phone for Seniors & the Visually Impaired

The ODIN VI is a talking mobile phone designed to be fully accessible to persons who blind or visually impaired, including seniors.

Access HD Video Magnification Anywhere with VisioBook

The VisioBook from BAUM Retec AG is a portable video magnifier that enables visually impaired people to enlarge text and images for reading and distance viewing.

Optelec Compact 5 HD Electronic Magnifier

The Optelec Compact 5 HD is a handheld, high-definition video magnifier that enlarges text and images in print and LCD displays to make reading easier for persons with vision loss. The 10.4-ounce CCTV fits in a pocket and can be used anywhere to view prescriptions, menus, airport monitors, and more.

Amigo CCTV's Only Flaw is an Unfriendly Price

Anyone with impaired vision will befriend Enhanced Vision's Amigo, a portable, high-resolution CCTV that features up to 14x magnification, a "freeze frame" to capture text, and a tilting screen for easier reading and writing.

SpeakEasy Reading Machine Reads Scanned Documents Aloud

The SpeakEasy is a simple, standalone reading machine that reads aloud text from any scanned document using Optical Character Recognition (OCR) and text-to-speech -- a simple reading solution for seniors and those who are blind or visually impaired.

En-Vision America Products Help Blind People Scan Barcodes, Read Prescriptions

En-Vision America, Inc. makes products that help seniors continue to lead safe, independent lives. ScripTalk Station Reader is a portable, easy-to-use device that reads aloud what's printed on prescription labels.

En-Vision America's ScripTalk Reads Prescription Information Aloud

En-Vision America's ScripTalk Station Reader reads aloud what's printed on prescription pill bottles to prevent medication errors among seniors and those with visual impairments. ScripTalk uses radio-frequency identification and text-to-speech to read information stored on a special infrared sticker the pharmacist creates on the computer and...

Eazy Reader Displays Magnified Text on Your TV

The Eazy Reader Deluxe is an electronic low-vision reading aid with a digital camera that captures and displays enlarged images on a TV or computer -- a reading solution for seniors or persons with macular degeneration.

PenFriend Scans Coded Stickers & Replays User-Recorded Descriptions

The RNIB PenFriend Audio Labeler gives people who are blind and visually impaired a simple, effective way to distinguish between and organize household objects. The PenFriend scans small stickers used to label items and replays messages users record about them. The PenFriend is especially useful for organizing similar-sized things, such as...

En-Vision America's i.d. mate OMNI Portable Talking Barcode Scanner

The i.d mate OMNI is a handheld talking barcode scanner from En-Vision America that provides shoppers with audible details on over 2.3 million consumer products.