Few devices have become educational mainstays faster than Apple's iPad. The popular tablet is transforming how teachers and students learn, share, and communicate.

The iPad's reputation as an assistive device has evolved equally fast, from ancillary tool vocational rehabilitation counselors rarely recommended to dynamo for disability app development.

The VoiceOver screen reader and Zoom magnification built into iOS and the retina display make initial iPad orientation accessible to persons who are blind or visually impaired.

It takes time, however, for blind persons to learn all the settings, apps, and synchronizations needed to make the iPad fully accessible.

A new National Braille Press publication, iOS Success: Making the iPad Accessible, can help blind persons begin to get the most out of their machine.

iOS Success: Making the iPad Accessibleprovides step-by-step instructions covering iPad setup, including accessibility options; using touchscreen gestures and the rotor; adding notes and contacts with VoiceOver; activating Siri (on iOS6 iPads), connecting to external devices such as braille displays and Bluetooth keyboards; browsing the web; and using iBooks and Dropbox.

The final chapter provides tips for daily iPad use from three blind students Ethan Edwards, Meaghan Roper, and Lisa Tabaka, and Dr. Eric Vasiliauskas, a father who began learning iOS technology to help his two sons, both of whom are blind.

While the book is written primarily for parents and teachers with no iPad experience, persons who are blind or visually impaired will find much information they can apply immediately.

Chapter Two: Getting Acquainted with VoiceOver

Chapter Six: Finding What You Want on the Internet

Chapter Seven: Word Processing Tasks On the iPad

Chapter Eight: Let's Hear from the Experts

Larry L. Lewis is founder of Flying Blind, LLC -- an adaptive technology solutions provider for persons who are blind or visually impaired. His firm also offers iPad training, including a daylong seminar, "The Apple Accessibility Initiative."

iOS Success: Making the iPad Accessible -- A Guide for Teachers and Parents

Other National Braille Press books on iOS technology include: Getting Started wiht the iPhone and iOS 5 for Blind Users, Twenty-Ones Apps We Can't Live Without, The iPhone Tactile Screenshot Quick Reference Guide, and the Quick Guide to iMessaging.

Order books online or by calling 800.548.7323 (tool free) or 617.266.6160, ext 520.