The EX6220 doesn't feature a large number of exceptional features, but it does keep its price down while still being able to display widescreen content.   Dimensions The EX6220 is a 3LCD projector. It measures 11.6 inches wide by 9 inches in diameter by 3.1 inches high when the feet are taken into consideration, which makes it about average for an Epson projector. Lowering the feet brings the height down to an even 3 inches, so not much of a difference. It weighs in at 5.29 pounds, making it within the standard range for Epson's budget-priced, full-sized projectors. If size and weight are a true concern, take a look at pico projectors. These devices are about the size of an iPod, but you will sacrifice some specs to get there. Display Specs The native aspect ratio is listed at 16:10, which is ideal for widescreen viewing. Click here to learn more about aspect ratios.  The native resolution for the EX6220 is 1280 x 800 (WXGA). The resolution can be resized to 640 x 480 (VGA), 1024 x 768 (XGA), 1152 x 864 (SXGA), 1440 x 900 (WSXGA) and 1400 x 1050 (SXGA+). The contrast ratio is listed at 10,000:1. What is contrast ratio? Click here to read more about them. The throw ratio range is 1.30 to 1.56. The EX6220 can project an image measuring from 33 to 318 inches, which is about standard. Light output for the EX6220 is listed at 3,000 lumens for both color and white light. Color and white light are measured using the IDMS 15.4 and ISO 21118 standards, respectively, according to Epson. The EX6220 uses a 200-watt UHE E-TORL lamp (Epson's own lamp technology), which is the same as the 97 and 98 projectors. The company says this lamp lasts up to 6,000 hours in ECO Mode and up to 5,000 hours in Normal mode. This is about 1,000 more hours than most of the similarly featured Epson projectors. When purchasing a projector, the lamp lifetime is an important concern because replacing the lamp can be pricey (keep in mind that this is no ordinary light bulb). Replacement lamps can run the gamut depending on the type you need, but expect to spend between $100 and $200 for one.  Lamp life can also vary based on the type of viewing modes used and in what type of setting it's used. As Epson notes in its product literature, the lamp brightness will decrease over time. Audio Specs The EX6220 has a single 2-watt speaker. This is about average for budget-priced Epson projectors, but it may not be enough if you plan to use it in a large room like a lecture hall.  If you really need a projector with better sound capabilities, take a look at Epson's MegaPlex models. Those come with two 10-watt speakers built in. The fan noise is 329 dB in ECO Mode and 37 dB in Normal Mode, according to Epson, which is about average for the budget-priced projectors.  A lower fan noise means less interfering sound while watching movies and playing games, which should be less of a concern for the intended audience of this model.  Wireless Capabilities There is no mention of wireless capabilities for the EX6220. Other Epson models feature external wireless LAN models that allow you to use the company's iProjection App. This app lets you display and control content using an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch, or using an Android device. If you're interested in those, check out this model's big-sister projector, the EX7220. Inputs There are several inputs: computer/component video: Mini D-sub VGA 15 pin; S-video; RCA; audio in; HDMI; Type A USB connector; and Type B USB connector. If you're not sure of the differences between Type A and Type B USB ports, here's a quick lesson: Type A looks like a rectangle and is the kind that you'll use with a memory stick. Type B looks like a square and is used for connecting other computer peripherals, such as a mouse or a keyboard. Because the EX6220 does have the Type A connector, you will not be required to use a computer for presentations. You can store your files on a memory stick or hard drive, connect it to the projector, and carry on. Power The power consumption is listed at 234 watts in Normal Mode and 283 in ECO mode Lens The lens for the 98 has a manual focus with a manual zoom. This article from About.com's Camcorder site explains the differences between optical and digital zooms. The digital zoom ratio is listed at 1.0 to 1.2. Security The EX6220 comes with Kensington's lock provision (a commonly found hole meant for use with Kensington's popular locking systems), which is found in most Epson projectors. It also features a password protection function. Warranty A one-year limited warranty is included for the projector -- Epson offers either one- or two-year warranties for most of its projectors. The lamp is under a 90-day limited warranty, which is what all of its lamps receive. The product literature also states that the EX6220 is covered under Epson's Road Service Program, which promises to overnight ship a replacement projector -- for free -- if something is wrong with yours. Fine print aside, this is a good deal for anyone who needs a quick replacement. Moderator Function There is no mention of a Moderator Function. This allows up to 60 devices to connect over a network. Users can then select up to four devices to project simultaneously. If you rely on multiple devices during your presentations, this may be very valuable to you. You can also monitor status alerts for the projectors over the network. If this is a feature that interests you, take a look at some of the PowerLite projectors. What You Get Included the box is a remote control with batteries, power cable, VGA cable, USB cable and user manuals. Functions for the remote include Source search selection, power, volume, e-zoom, A/V mute, freeze, menu, page up and down, help, auto and mouse functions. Color modes aren't listed, but the product literate does state that it has a Sleep Mode. There is also Direct Power Off/On, which allows you to control the EX6220 with the flip of a switch.  Takeaway The price tag for the EX6220 is $549, which makes it one of the most budget-priced projectors for Epson. If you need a bare-bones projector that can still handle widescreen display, this could be your model.  