Many books in alternative formats require special players to restrict access to copyrighted material to persons with documented print disabilities such as blindness. Some players support one proprietary format; others play many types of files, e.g. DAISY, MP3, commercial audio, and text. Some players are free to qualified readers; others are available through agencies that serve the disabled.

Victor Reader Stream Gives Print Disabled Readers Wi-Fi Access to DAISY Books

HumanWare's Victor Reader Stream is a pocket-sized DAISY book and multimedia player designed to help persons with print disabilities -- including visual impairments and dyslexia -- to access and read texts in alternative formats.

BookSense Plays DAISY and Most Electronic Text File Types

BookSense from HIMS is pocket-sized DAISY audiobook player that enables users to organize and access a wide range of electronic documents. The BookSense XT features Interactive Voice Recognition (IVR).

Victor Reader Stream Plays Audio and DAISY Books for the Blind

HumanWare's Victor Reader Stream Library Edition is a handheld DAISY audiobook player for blind and visually impaired readers that plays a wide variety of text and audio file types.

Book Port DT Digital Talking Book Player

Book Port DT is a desktop-style Digital Talking Book player and recorder produced by the American Printing House for the Blind, Louisville, Kentucky.

NLS Digital Talking Book Player

The NLS Digital Talking Book player was released in 2006. It plays NLS DAISY audiobooks that are recorded on (or downloaded to) small digital cartridges that have replaced the use of cassette tapes.

Insignia Narrator Advanced HD Radio for the Visually Impaired

The Insignia Narrator Advanced HD Radio is voice activated and is designed to enable blind and visually impaired people to more easily access radio reading services in their area.

Transfer BARD Content to a Blank NLS Cartridge

NLS blank cartridges work like thumb drives that connect to your computer via USB cable and enable you to transfer BARD content to listen to on an NLS Digital Talking Book player.

Victor Reader Stratus 12 DAISY Audiobook & MP3 Player

The Victor Reader Stratus from HumanWare is a portable DAISY audiobook player for blind and visually impaired readers that plays a wide variety of file formats, including MP3 and commercial audiobooks.

Beep Kickball is a Top Visually Impaired Product & Game for Blind People

Beep kickball is an accessible version of the popular schoolyard game developed for children who are blind and visually impaired that uses a ball with a built-in beeper.