These improvements reflect two realities: people are demanding more mobile access, while realizing dictation alone doesn't ensure good writing and quality communication.

The two most significant enhancements are integrating dictation with Apple iOS devices such as the iPhone , and enabling users to combine dictation with manual input when writing documents in Microsoft Word 2011.

Dragon Dictate 2.5 for Mac is easy to install. The program enables users to quickly create a voice profile that accurately captures text and executes commands.

The Nuance Dragon family of speech recognition applications enable users to control their computer with their voice.

Each product comes with an installation CD and a headset microphone. The program guides the user in creating a "voice profile," after which they can dictate text, compose emails, and browse the web while touching neither mouse nor keyboard.

Voice recognition was originally created to help persons with disabilities access computer and communications technology. Dragon epitomizes assistive technology's mainstream appeal.

Dragon Dictate for Mac 2.5 has new features that make it easier to create documents, send Tweets, SMS text messages, and emails, update Facebook, and browse the web.

The program is easy to install, train, and use. What distinguishes Dragon Dictate and Dragon NaturallySpeaking is the speed and accuracy of its voice recognition -- you can speak quickly and in full sentences and paragraphs, and it puts those words on paper. It's great for composing long documents.

A longstanding criticism of Dragon has been its seeming desire to remove the keyboard from computing. What's interesting about Dragon 2.5, however, is that it enables users to combine dictation with manual mouse and keyboard entry, giving users more control over how they use the program.

At the same time, Dragon shows no signs of slowing down its dictation functionality. The upgrade supports the Dragon Remote Mic App, which enables users to turn their Apple iOS devices into a wireless microphone for use with Dragon on their Mac.

Dragon Dictate 2.5 for Mac starts at $179.99 and is available through Nuance's website. Dragon Dictate 2.5 is a free upgrade for Dragon Dictate 2.0 users. The Dragon Remote Mic App is also free