Since 1931, the National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped, Library of Congress, has provided books and other publications in accessible formats such as audio and braille to blind people and those unable to read standard print.

The National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped (NLS) is a free program administered by the Library of Congress that produces and distributes books in accessible formats -- notably digital audio and braille -- to persons with print disabilities.

The NLS may be best known as the creator of Talking Books -- professionally narrated audiobooks recorded by the American Printing House for the Blind for readers who are blind or visually impaired.

But the NLS also publishes braille sheet music and accessible editions of popular magazines, and manufactures the playback equipment one needs to listen to books. To comply with US copyright laws, the NLS must limit book access to readers with documented disabilities. In the past, it has done this by recording books at slower speeds. It now uses the DAISY format -- an e-book with embedded navigation. Read more...

In addition to its proprietary player, one can also listen to digital Talking Books on specialized players such as the Booksense Reader and Victor Reader Stream. Read more...

The NLS collection has over 400,000 titles. Each year, its 113 regional and sub-regional libraries circulate about 30 million books to nearly one million disabled readers.

The Pratt-Smoot Act, passed by Congress and signed by President Hoover in 1931, provided $100,000, to the Library of Congress to record books for blind and visually impaired adults. The program was expanded in 1952 to include children's books. In 1962, the NLS added accessible music materials, and four years later, extended eligibility to persons with physical and print disabilities.

Through the NLS, qualified readers can access:

Another way the NLS promotes blind literacy is serving as the US certifying authority for braille transcription and proofreading.

To be eligible for NLS services, readers must be residents of US, its territories and insular possessions, or US citizens living abroad, and have a disability that prevents one from being able to read standard print. These include:

Disability documentation from a certifying authority is required. An authority may be a physician, ophthalmologist, registered nurse, occupational therapist, rehabilitation counselor, teacher, librarian or other individual the NLS deems qualified.

Institutions such as nursing homes and schools for the blind are also eligible to borrow NLS materials, as are public and private schools where disabled students are enrolled.

Honorably discharged US veterans receive preferential treatment in all NLS lending practices, such as the distribution of the latest playback equipment.

Those who meet the eligibility criteria can apply for service using the Find a Library tool on the NLS website or by calling 888.657.7323 to locate the nearest library. Applicants submit a written form and proof of disability.

Network libraries try to send playback equipment within three business days after certifying an application. An initial shipment of books and catalogs is sent within five days. New members can also select accessories such as headphones and specify options for receiving books.

Contact your network library by phone, email, fax, or postal mail to borrow materials.

Developing a relationship with the NLS library staff is vital: phone orders are processed immediately, while the default "turnaround" service may prevent shipment till other books are returned.

You can search the NLS online catalog for books, find magazines in accessible formats, and explore NLS's music and foreign language collections.

The NLS annually adds 2,500 titles to its collection, announcing new additions in its bimonthly publications, Braille Book Review and Talking Book Topics. Both publications are available in braille, cassette, and large print and can also be read using a screen reader on the NLS website.

Professionally narrated Talking Books, unlike volunteer-read recordings from institutions such as Learning Ally, are often a better choice for reading assigned classics such as novels. Voice quality and proper enunciation can increase reading comprehension and overall enjoyment.