Learning Ally's library of over 65,000 digital audio textbooks is an invaluable resource for readers who struggle to read standard print, whether due to a visual impairment or learning disability.

Learning Ally records and distributes digital audiobooks, with an emphasis on educational texts, to those unable to read standard print due to a visual impairment or learning disability. The Princeton-NJ based nonprofit has a repository of over 65,000 audiobooks that members can download and listen to on both mainstream and specialized playback devices. A network of over 6,000 volunteer readers record texts for all educational levels. Grants from the U.S. Department of Education, state and local education programs, and private donations fund Learning Ally.

Learning Ally was founded in 1948 as Recording for the Blind. The organization's first mission was to help blind World War II veterans attending college on the GI Bill. Increased use by learning disabled students prompted the 1995 name change to Recording for the Blind & Dyslexic. In April 2011 RFB&D became Learning Ally to reflect use of its resources by students with more diverse learning differences. Over 75 percent of Learning Ally's 300,000 members are learning disabled.

Learning Ally is a membership organization. Once an application is accepted, members can download audiobooks and play them on a computer running special software, an Apple iPhone or iPad running the Learning Ally Audio app, or a digital playback device such as the Victor Reader Stream. Learning Ally books come in three formats: DAISY (Digital Accessible Information System) is a set of standards for recording digital talking books structured for easy navigation among sections. You can listen to a Downloadable DAISY book on a PC or Mac running Learning Ally software, an Apple iPad, iPhone, or iPod touch with the Learning Ally Audio app, and digital players such as the Victor Reader Stream. You can listen to a DAISY CD-ROM on a PC or Mac running Learning Ally software or a specialized CD player such as the PlexTalk PTR2 Player/Recorder. You can listen to Downloadable WMA on a PC, MP3 player, and devices such as the Phillips GoGear Vibe. Players not yet supported are the Android, BlackBerry, Kindle, Microsoft Zune, Nook, and Sony Reader. Check the Learning Ally website for more detail about supported formats and playback equipment.