top - display top CPU processes] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [provides an ongoing look at processor activity in real time. It displays a listing of the most CPU-intensive tasks on the system, and can provide an interactive interface for manipulating processes. It can sort the tasks by CPU usage, memory usage and runtime. can be better configured than the standard top from the procps suite. Most features can either be selected by an interactive command or by specifying the feature in the personal or system-wide configuration file. See below for more information.

displays a variety of information about the processor state. The display is updated every 5 seconds by default, but you can change that with thecommand-line option or theinteractive command.Several single-key commands are recognized whileis running. Some are disabled if theoption has been given on the command line.After pressingoryou will be shown a screen specifying the field order on the top line and short descriptions of the field contents. The field order string uses the following syntax: If the letter in the filed string corresponding to a field is upper case, the field will be displayed. This is furthermore indicated by an asterisk in front of the field description. The order of the fields corresponds to the order of the letters in the string.From the field select screen you can toggle the display of a field by pressing the corresponding letter.From the order screen you may move a field to the left by pressing the corresponding upper case letter resp. to the right by pressing the lower case one. The commandreads it's default configuration from two files,and. The global configuration file may be used to restrict the usage of top to the secure mode for non-non-privileged users. If this is desired, the file should contain a 's' to specify secure mode and a digit d (2W interactive command.

The second line is more interesting (and important). It contains information on the other options. Most important, if you have saved a configuration in secure mode, you will not get an insecure top without removing the lower 's' from the second line of your ~/.toprc.

A digit specifies the delay time between updates, a capital 'S' cumulative mode, a lower 'i' no-idle mode, a capital 'I' Irix view. As in interactive mode, a lower 'm', 'l', and 't' suppresses the display of memory, uptime resp. process and CPU state information. Currently changing the default sorting order (by CPU usage) is not supported.

Important: Use the man command (% man) to see how a command is used on your particular computer.