Sometimes the best way to learn a task is to see it step by step. Here we show you how-to cell phone visuals and descriptions that make sense so you can perform all the tasks you need.

How to Automatically Dial Extensions on Android

Learn a quick and easy way to automatically dial the extension numbers of your business contacts, on your Android phone.

Connecting to Wi-Fi on Android

Connecting your Android smartphone to an secured or unsecured Wi-Fi network is easy if you know how.

Setting Up a Samsung Galaxy

Learn how to get your shiny new Samsung Galaxy phone set up for the first time.

Find Your Cheapest Cellular Service Plan

Finding a cheaper cell phone plan can save you big bucks. Here are a few places to look.

How to Spot, Avoid Costly Cell Phone Fines

Here are four steps for spotting and avoiding costly cell phone fines.

How to Backup Your Phone's Data Online

CyberSynchs and Microsoft's My Phone are competing services that perform automatic data backups for various cellphones.

Cell Phone Care, Maintenance From Good Housekeeping

Good Housekeeping provides a resource for understanding cell phone care and maintenance.

How to Get MMS on Your iPhone

AT&T has (finally) activated MMS for the iPhone. Here's how you use iPhone MMS.

How to Set Up Push Gmail on the iPhone 

Push Gmail offers a faster way to get new e-mail messages on your iPhone. Here's a guide to adding this handy feature.

How to Sync Your Palm Pre With iTunes

Syncing your Palm Pre smartphone with iTunes can be a really handy way to transfer music and photos to your phone. Here's how to sync your Palm Pre with iTunes.

How to Connect a Bluetooth Headset to a Palm Pre

Using a Bluetooth headset with your Palm Pre can be a liberating experience. It keeps your hands free, which is not just convenient -- it's also a much safer way to use your phone while driving. Here's how to do it.

How to Transfer Contacts to Your Palm Pre from Microsoft Outlook

If you have a shiny new Palm Pre, you'll want to get your contacts on there. Here's a step-by-step guide to transferring contacts from Microsoft Outlook to your Palm Pre.

How to Set Up a New iPhone

Whether you purchased your iPhone in the store or ordered it online, you still need to connect it to iTunes to get it up and running. Doing so allows you to transfer information and data (including your music collection and more) to your new iPhone.

How to Update Your iPhone's Software

Updating your iPhone's software is one way to make sure you're taking advantage of all its features. Here's a step-by-step guide that tells you how to update your iPhone software.

How to Connect a Bluetooth Headset to an iPhone

Using a Bluetooth headset can be a liberating experience. Here's how to connect (or "pair") a Bluetooth headset to an iPhone.

How to Restore an iPhone

Restoring your iPhone to its original factory settings is a way to repair any damages you've done to the phone by downloading unauthorized software. It's not guaranteed to fix your problems, but it is your best bet. Here's a step-by-step tutorial that walks you through the steps needed to restore your iPhone.

Catch the Beijing Summer Olympics on Your Mobile Phone

You don't have to be tied to your TV to catch the action of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. The Web browser on your smartphone can let you access news, results, and--in some cases--video highlights from the Games while you're on the go. Here are some tips on where to find mobile Olympic coverage.

How to View Word Documents on Your iPhone

The iPhone has its strengths, to be sure. Unfortunately, productivity software is not the iPhone's strong point. Apple's smartphone does not come with any applications designed to let you create, view, or edit word processing documents or spreadsheets. Here's an easy way to access your files from your phone.

How to Salvage a Wet Cell Phone From wikiHow

This is a step-by-step guide of how to save a wet cell phone from wikiHow.

How to Combat Cell Phone Spam From Consumer Reports

This is a helpful guide from the Consumer Reports blog on how to thwart cell phone spam.

How to Buy a Cell Phone From PC World

PC World offers a helpful, big-picture guide about how to buy a cell phone.

How to Keep Costs Low For Overseas Cell Phone Calling From CNN.com

CNN.com provides a helpful guide about how to keep overseas costs low for cell phones.

Downloading Android Apps

Here we show you how to download apps from the Google Play Store using two different methods.

Using Samsung Kies

If you own a Samsung Galaxy phone, it is a good idea to familiarize yourself with the excellent Samsung Kies software.

Switching From iPhone to HTC

Learn how easy it is to transfer your iPhone data, including photos, contacts, messages and music, to a HTC One.

Customise Contacts - Galaxy S4

Learn how to add, customise and personalise contacts on your Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphone.