These are my latest Samsung cell phone reviews.

Samsung Galaxy S4 GT-I9505 Review

Can the new Galaxy S4 impress us enough to make the upgrade worthwhile?

Samsung Galaxy S3 GT-I9300 Review

As a flagship device from Samsung, the largest smartphone manufacturer in the world, the Galaxy S3 has certainly had its share of headlines. But does this huge phone live up to all the hype? Read our full review to find out.

Samsung Glyde: A Nice Touch

Apple's iPhone has touched off a touch-screen phone frenzy. The Samsung Glyde is just one of the latest models to sport a touch-screen. So how does this smartphone stack up to the iPhone?

Samsung Intrepid Review: It's Just Average

While we wait (and wait) for version 7.0 of the Windows Mobile operating system to be released, cellphones with Windows Mobile 6.5 are hitting the market. One of the first was the Samsung Intrepid, a smartphone that's solid and serviceable -- if a bit bland.

Samsung Instinct Get an Upgrade to HD

Samsung has updated its Instinct feature phone with some high-definition enhancements. The latest version of the Instinct, called the Instinct HD offers a camcorder capable of capturing HD clips, a 5-megapixel camera, and an HD-out port so you can view your work on a big screen TV.

Samsung Propel Goes Pro

Samsung's Propel is a popular messaging phone, but its features are a bit limited. If you like the Propel's look and feel, but wish it could do more, you'll love the Propel Pro.

The Samsung Jack: Capable and Affordable

Samsung has updated its popular line of BlackJack cellphones with a new model, named Jack. The Samsung Jack retains many of the features found on earlier BlackJack cellphones, and adds a few new features, too.

Samsung's Sleeker, Sexier Instinct s30

The new Instinct s30 is a sleeker version of Samsung's original Instinct. Unfortunately, most of the update is only skin deep; other than the new look, the s30 feels a whole lot like the original Instinct.

Samsung Memoir: Camera or Phone?

Is it a mobile phone that takes pictures, or a digital camera that makes calls? That's what the 8-megapixel Samsung Memoir may have you asking.

Samsung Behold: A Feature Phone for T-Mobile

Samsung has had success with its iPhone-like touch-screen phones. Sprint users have the Instinct; Verizon users can opt for the Omnia. Now, T-Mobile users have a touch-screen option of their own: The Samsung Behold.

The Sleek Samsung Omnia

Interested in an iPhone, but not so interested in AT&T? Meet the Samsung Omnia, an iPhone look-alike that runs on the Verzion Wireless network.

Samsung Saga: Strictly Business

With its blue case, the Samsung Saga may look like a smartphone for consumers, but this Windows Mobile phone primarily is designed for business use.

Profile: Samsung Epix for AT&T

The Samsung Epix isn't technically an upgraded version of the popular Samsung BlackJack II smartphone--but it could be. The Epix features a sleek design that looks a whole lot like the BlackJack II, while adding some nifty upgrades to the phone's functionality, such as a touch screen, support for Wi-Fi, and Windows Mobile 6.1.

Samsung Rant: An Affordable Messaging Phone

Teenagers will love the Samsung Rant. Its roomy keyboard makes texting a breeze and it comes with access to Sprint's mobile TV and music services. But anyone looking for a business-friendly smartphone with lots of productivity applications will be sorely disappointed.

Profile: Samsung BlackJack II Smartphone from AT&T

The Samsung BlackJack II is an update of Samsung's extremely popular BlackJack smartphone. The BlackJack II retains many of the same features as the original BlackJack--including a slim design, excellent messaging options, and support for high-speed, 3G networks--while adding a few new features, such as built-in GPS and an upgraded Windows Mobile 6 operating system.

Samsung Impression A877: Non-Smartphone Touch Screen Handset

While most touch screen phones typically come in the form of cellphones (i.e. handsets with a mobile operating system), the Samsung Impression A877 bucks the norm.

Samsung Rogue: Dictate Your Text Messages

The full-keyboard Samsung Rogue touch screen phone for Verizon Wireless stands out in a sea of quick-messaging handsets with its advanced speech capabilities (i.e. text message dictation) along with its comprehensive feature set.

Samsung Reclaim: Green Phone Made of 80% Recyclable Materials

The eco-friendly Samsung Reclaim green cell phone is made up of 80 percent recyclable materials and is designed with organic components and packaging.

Samsung Exclaim: Dedicated One Click for Social Networking

The Samsung Exclaim is a dual-sliding, quick-messaging cell phone for Sprint with interactive Facebook, MySpace and Twitter tiles.

Jitterbug J: Large Keys, Bright Screen, Easy Menus for Seniors

The Jitterbug J cell phone by Samsung features a large, backlit keypad for easy dialing along with a bright color screen and easy-to-understand menus for seniors.

Samsung Mantra: Social Networking-Friendly Flip Phone

While the Samsung Mantra for Virgin Mobile is marketed at "channeling the extrovert" in you with access to social networking services such as MySpace, Facebook, Flickr and Photobucket, the budget cell phone is also unremarkable.

Samsung A767 Propel Profile: Full of Features, Full Keyboard

To round out AT&T's end-of-2008 blitz targeted at heavy textaholics, the Samsung A767 Propel is the cell phone carrier's square quick-messaging slider with a full QWERTY keyboard and the creme de la creme of its entertainment features.

Slider Phone: Review of the Samsung Slash Slider Phone

The new Slash slider phone by Samsung knows it's no iPhone. Instead, the Slash for Virgin Mobile indeed "cuts right to the core" with all our basic cell phone needs without muddying itself up with advanced features its youthful demographic won't use.

Samsung Instinct Review for Sprint

The Instinct, which is Samsung's latest and greatest do-it-all smartphone for Sprint, has gone head to head with the almighty iPhone 3G for AT&T. The Instinct even goes so far as to coin itself the "iPhone killer". But is it really or is that marketing hype trying to compete for your smartphone dollar in a time when millions are being spent on both products?

Review of Samsung SPH-A640: The Basics Without the Bells, Whistles

While many of today's bells and whistles are a fine fit for some of us, another contingent of consumers merely uses the technology to place and receive calls. If you desire a phone that simply gets the job done without bogging you down with advanced features you'll never use, the Samsung SPH-A640 from Sprint may pique your interest.

Review of Samsung Upstage: Two-Sided, Flip-Flopping Multimedia Phone

Samsung's Upstage attempts to marry all that's chic about miniature multimedia with its most natural lover: the digital phone. On some levels, I thank my lucky stars for several of its innovations. On some others, I curse the South Korean gods for injecting vexing technology for technology's sake.

Business information about Samsung Electronics Co. from Hoover's

This is business information about Samsung Electronics Co. from Hoover's.

Samsung Behold II Review: An Android Phone for Fun

The original Samsung Behold was a straight-forward messaging phone from T-Mobile. But the newer Samsung Behold II is an advanced, Android-based smartphone -- so different from its predecessor that you might never know these two phone were related at all. And that's a very good thing.

Samsung Intercept Review: Android on a Budget

The Samsung Intercept may lack the flash found on some of its higher-profile rivals, but it's still a very capable device -- and one that comes at a very affordable price

Samsung Vibrant Review: Pretty, Polished, and Plenty of Fun

The Samsung Vibrant sure does make a great first impression. As soon as I pulled the phone out of the packaging, I was impressed with its thin profile, big screen, and how comfortable it was in my hand. And, the more I used the Vibrant, the more impressed I was with its functionality, as wel.

Samsung Epic 4G Review: High-Speed, High Price

Samsung introduced a handful of Galaxy S smartphones this summer, and all of them are impressive. The problem is, however, that most of them are so similar that they can be hard to distinguish. But not the Samsung Epic 4G.

Samsung Captivate Review: AT&T's Best Android Phone Yet

Samsung introduced a handful of Galaxy S smartphones this summer, and all of them are impressive. The problem is, however, that most of them are so similar that they can be hard to distinguish. Case in point: the Samsung Captivate, available from AT&T.

Samsung Fascinate Review: A Winning Android Phone from Verizon

Verizon was the last of the four big nationwide carriers to offer one of Samsung's line of Galaxy S Android-based smartphone. But being the last...

Jitterbug J Review - Review of the Jitterbug J Cell Phone from GreatCall

Jitterbug J Review - Review of the Jitterbug J Cell Phone from GreatCall

Samsung Infuse 4G: AT&T's Big-Screen, High-Speed Android Smartphone

AT&T is jumping into the increasingly-crowded market for 4G smartphones with the Samsung Infuse, a big-screen device that is the first to run on the carrier's speedy HSPA + network.

Samsung Conquer 4G Review: High Speed, Low Price

Looking for an affordable Android phone that offers 4G speeds? Look no more: the Samsung Conquer 4G is here.

Business information about Samsung Electronics Co. from Hoover's

This is business information about Samsung Electronics Co. from Hoover's.

Samsung Galaxy S5 - Full Review

Can the Galaxy S5 please the fans? Or are we all now expecting more aesthetically pleasing phones like the HTC One M8? Read the full review of the S5 and decide for yourself.