If you enjoy remote outdoor activities that take you beyond the cell phone network, and you occasionally go alone, satellite communication is your best bet for staying in touch and for rescue in case of an emergency. DeLorme recently introduced a new model to its InReach line, the Explorer ($379 plus satellite plan), which includes built-in GPS navigation. "In addition to the messaging, tracking and SOS capabilities, users of the inReach Explorer can view, create or navigate routes and waypoints," states DeLorme. "An easy-to-follow map view displays routes, waypoints, tracks and messages geo-located onscreen for backtracking or self-rescue. The built-in digital compass, barometric altimeter and accelerometer sensors ensure accuracy and provide heading and bearing information, accurate elevation readings, speed and other useful trip statistics." DeLorme has tried to make subscription to the device's satellite communication plan as affordable and flexible as possible. No-contract plans start at $14.95 per month. The InReach Explorer is waterproof and ruggedized, and packs a number of additional backcountry features, including free topo map downloads, two-way satellite text messaging, global satellite SOS, and real-time tracking. Image (c) DeLorme

Garmin's running and fitness GPS watch line continues to grow with the introduction of the new Forerunner 15 ($169). The Forerunner 15 is Garmin's lowest-priced watch that works with a wireless heart rate monitor strap, and a foot pod, which is useful for measuring indoor treadmill or indoor track workouts. This new watch may also be used to monitor your all-day activity and for counting your steps and calorie burn. All of its data may be uploaded, stored, analyzed, and shared on Garmin's free Connect service. The watch is available in multiple colors, including teal (shown here), violet, black, and red. Image (c) Garmin

With each passing week, rumors about two new larger screen (4.7 and 5.5 inches) iPhone 6 models, to be announced in September, gain credibility. Leaked phone chassis, cases, and manufacturing details are some of the early signs that have proven accurate with previous iPhone releases. With the addition of these two new screen sizes, Apple will be offering a much smoother continuum of forms, ranging from the 4-inch screen of the iPhone 5S, to the two, larger new iPhone 6 models, then the iPad Mini at 7.9 inches, and the iPad at 9.7 inches. In this article, I explore the possibilities for GPS and location technology in the rumored iPhone 6. I also consider the possibilities for the new iOS 8 operating system for health and fitness apps, as well as the CarPlay iOS for the car. Read on for more.

Last week, Meb Keflezighi became the first American to win the Boston Marathon in 31 years, and he did so while wearing a Garmin Forerunner 620 GPS watch. Keflezighi was sighted late last week at Garmin's headquarters in Olathe, Kansas to help kick off the Land of Oz marathon. Keflezighi met with Garmin's fitness and engineering team, and Garmin promises to reveal more stats and details about how he uses his GPS watch to race and train. Garmin hasn't published Keflezighi's marathon stats and track (yet), but I'll share the link if it becomes available. Image (c) Garmin