The Apple iPhone 4 on Verizon Wireless will compete with Android OS and BlackBerry phones in the GPS navigation categories.

Apple's iPhone has finally come to Verizon Wireless. The iPhone will bring a new range of GPS app and turn-by-turn navigation options to Verizon's lineup.

Verizon's GPS-equipped smartphone lineup will include Android operating system phones by Motorola, Sony-Ericsson, HTC, and Samsung. Android OS phones include free Google Maps Navigation turn-by-turn directions and Google Maps. In addition there is a fairly good selection of GPS apps for Android, including free fitness apps such as Google's My Tracks. Overall, however, the Android OS has a long way to go to catch up with the iPhone's GPS and navigation app selection.

Verizon is also home to a wide selection of BlackBerry phones, which can run GPS and MapQuest 4 Mobile (turn-by-turn directions and traffic detection & avoidance), Geocache Navigator, Trimble Outdoors, and assorted golf GPS apps.

The iPhone will bring its much bigger selection of GPS and navigation apps to Verizon. The iPhone comes with Google Maps standard and free, and this app meets the navigation needs for many. However the iPhone also can pack a number of high-quality turn-by-turn navigation apps, including those from TomTom, MotionX, TeleNav, AT&T, and Navigon. With more than 7,200 apps including GPS and navigation features in Apple's App Store, it seems just about every interest is covered, ranging from turn-by-turn car navigation, to golf, to sports, and quite a few esoteric categories (pub finders or ice cream store finders, anyone?).

Also built in to the iPhone is a nice compass app that makes use of the iPhone's real magnetic compass (you don't need to be moving for it to work). Future navigation apps will also no doubt make use of the very sensitive accelerometer built into the iPhone.

With the addition of the iPhone, Verizon customers will finally have the full range of smartphone options available to them. Watch for more Verizon iPhone GPS and navigation news and reviews here.