Garmin Edge Touring and Touring Plus GPS Cyclecomputers

Garmin introduces the Edge Touring and Edge Touring Plus model GPS cyclecomputers, designed for the recreational bicycle tourist.

New GPS Products at the Outdoor Retailer Show

New GPS products were announced at the recent Outdoor Retailer Show 2013.

Garmin K2 a 'Glass Cockpit' for Cars

Garmin introduces a "glass cockpit" for cars with the introduction of its new K2 Infotainment system.

Garmin's 2013 Edge 810 and 510 Models Add Connectivity

Garmin introduces a new era of connectivity into GPS cyclecomputers with the introduction of the Edge 810 models.

MOTOACTV Golf Edition Watch

The Motorola MOTOACTIV Golf Edition GPS sports watch lets you track distance-to-the-hole from anywhere on the course, and has scorekeeping and club stat-keeping.

Location and navigation features of the iPhone 4S and Siri assistant

The Apple iPhone 4S, combined with GPS and Apple's iOS 5 operating system, include some powerful location-based and navigation features. Here are the details.

TomTom Introduces New GO LIVE 1535M Car GPS With Apps

TomTom introduces the 2012 GO LIVE 1535M Car GPS model, featuring new travel apps from Yelp, TripAdvisor, Expedia, and Twitter.

Garmin Unveils 2012 Line of In-car Portable Nuvi GPS Devices

Garmin's 2012 line of portable car GPS navigators includes Essential, Advanced, and Prestige lines covering a range of prices and capabilities. Details on 2012 Garmin product line.

Garmin Vector: Wireless Power Data to GPS Cyclecomputers

Garmin will introduce a Vector power meter for cyclists that measures power output and wirelessly transmits data to its Edge line of GPS cyclecomputers.

Garmin's Glass-Touchscreen Forerunner 610 GPS Sports Watch

Garmin's new Forerunner 610 GPS watch has a glass capacitive touchscreen and dozens of functions for the athlete.

iPad 2 GPS

Like its predecessor, the Apple iPad 2 has GPS and location features such as a digital compass. But the iPad 2 brings new capability and apps. See more.

Google Nexus S GPS Navigation

Latest GPS navigation features and location-based services for the Google Nexus S smartphone.

Garmin Acquires MetriGear to Add Bike Power Meter to its Sports Line

Garmin acquires MetriGear to add bike power meter to its sports line.

Garmin Launches Marine-Friendly GPSMAP 78-series Handhelds

Garmin has launched the new 78-series of marine-friendly handheld GPS devices.

GPS and Navigation Features of the iPhone HD 4G

The latest on the GPS and turn-by-turn navigation features of the Apple iPhone HD 4G. How the iPhone HD 4G will integrate GPS.

Magellan's eXplorist GC GPS Made for Geocachers

Magellan introduces a new handheld GPS specifically for geocaching.

SiRFstarIV GPS Chip Sips Power, Improves Sensitivity, Accuracy

SiRFstarIV uses only five percent as much power as its competitive set, and increases sensitivity and accuracy

TomTom Announces iPhone App and Windshield Mount

TomTom has introduced a new turn-by-turn navigation app for the iPhone, plus a charger/windshield mount.

AT&T FamilyMap Service Provides Phone Location Tracking

Track phones within your billing account with AT&T FamilyMap

TomTom's New GO 740 LIVE Features Net Connectivity, Google Local Search

TomTom's new-for-2009 GO 740 LIVE features Internet connectivity, including Google Search. Read more about TomTom GO 740 LIVE.

Polar Electro Introduces the RS800CX Fitness Computer

Respected fitness gadget maker Polar Electro introduces the new RS800CX wristwatch fitness computer and RS800CX cyclecomputer ($465).

MyAthlete GPS Tracks Competitors

MyAthlete consists of a small, compact, waterproof and shock-resistant GPS transmitter/receiver, and a complementary Web site where anyone can track the athlete.

Track Your Walk or Run With RunKeeper and the iPhone3G

Listen to your favorite workout music and track your run in detail at the same time with the Apple iPhone 3G and the RunKeeper app.

Garmin Introduces New Oregon Line of Handheld GPS Receivers

Garmin introduces a new "Oregon" line of mapping handheld GPS receivers. The all-new, five-model Oregon line features high-resolution color touchscreens, a waterproof rating, topo maps with 3D elevation perspective, and customizable usage profiles.

Zoombak GPS Locator Tracks Your Car or Pet

Zoombak is a new type of GPS locator that can provide you with the location of a car, pet, off-road vehicle - virtually anything that moves outdoors. You may also set zone alerts that will notify you via text message or e-mail when the unit has left or entered specified zones.

iPhone 6 GPS, Maps, and Turn-by-Turn Navigation Features

Apple's latest iPhone 6 will run on the iOS 7 operating system, so we already know about most of its GPS performance. Here are the details.

New Google Maps Review

Google has updated its Maps service with a new, more visual and user-customizable interface. Here are the details on new Google Maps.

GPS Holiday Gift Guide 2013

GPS Gift Guide Holiday 2013. Cool New GPS Gifts For Sports, Hiking, Driving, and More

New From The 2014 Consumer Electronics Show

GPS and location-aware device news from CES 2014.

Apple's iBeacon Locates You Within a Store and Provides Special Offers

Apple's iBeacon enables "micro-location" within participating stores. Here's how it works, and what it can do for you.