A number of exciting new GPS and outdoor sports products were unveiled at the recent Outdoor Retailer Show held in Salt Lake City, Utah. One of the more interesting offerings is a new GPS sport watch from Magellan called the Echo (see photo). The Echo ($149.99 or $199.99 with a Bluetooth Smart heart rate monitor, available 4th quarter) has many of the features we've come to expect from a quality GPS sport watch, including time, pace, distance, heart rate, adjustable alarms and alerts, and rugged, waterproof construction.

Echo GPS Sport Watch

 Setting the Echo apart is the fact that it's designed to play well with apps. "For the first time on a running watch, Magellan Echo consumers can simultaneously see fitness data, notifications and achievements that display on their smartphone," states Magellan. "Using Bluetooth to wirelessly connect with a smartphone, Echo shows users the elapsed time, distance and other fitness metrics at a glance. Echo gives users control over a variety of smartphone functions including start, stop or lap on your fitness app, and next song, play and pause on your music playlist." With your phone tucked away, remote controls make it easy to perform App functions like start, stop, lap as well as music controls. Tapping the screen turns the page to show additional data screens.

The Echo uses an open platform communication method to sync with apps from Wahoo, Strava, and other app makers to be announced this fall. One interesting feature of the Echo is that it does not need to be recharged. It is powered by a replaceable coin-type cell battery.

Fast Find Ranger PLB

 Also unveiled at Outdoor Retailer was the Fast Find Ranger PLB ($299). "The FAST FIND RANGER PLB uses advanced technology packed into a simple, lightweight, palm sized unit," states the company. "Using the dedicated 406MHz frequency, RANGER transmits your unique ID and precise GPS location to the global network of search and rescue satellites. Within minutes rescuers are alerted to your situation and receive regular updates." The Fast Find Ranger boasts a six-year battery life, no subscription payment, waterproof to 10 meters, and an emergency location beacon to supplement the global satellite beacon. Fast Find has two radio transmitters which start transmitting when you activate the beacon. One transmitter operates at 406 MHz which transmits alerts via satellites. The other operates at 121.5 MHz which transmits a signal which can be received by over-flying aircraft and Search and Rescue homing receivers. "Ground stations track the satellites and process the distress signals to obtain a location of the distress. The processed information is then forwarded to a Mission Control Center where it is combined with Fast Find registration information and passed to a Rescue Coordination Center which alerts the appropriate Search and Rescue authorities. Successive satellite passes refine and confirm the original information," states Fast Find.

SLXtreme 5 iPhone Case

 The new SLXtreme 5 iPhone Case ($129) provides a waterproof,ruggedized means of carrying your iPhone on outdoor adventures. The case also has a built-in rechargeable supplemental battery that more than doubles iPhone battery life, plus, a built-in solar charger. "Easily secure the phone with a flip-top loading latch that fully protects the iPhone, yet provides easy access to the camera, volume controls, speakers and multi-touch display," states the maker, Snow Lizard Products.

Trimble Outdoors TopoCharger

 Trimble revealed an interesting new product called the TopoCharger. TopoCharger supercharges iPhones in two ways: 1) It comes pre-loaded with full-color statewide topo maps in 15 zoom levels (1:250K to 1:24K). 2) The built-in, 1440 mAh battery doubles the phone's battery life. The 3-ounce case also includes a GPS app to guide you in the field.