Recreational and touring cyclists have long appreciated the mapping and turn-by-turn directions capabilities of the high-end Garmin Edge 800-series GPS cyclecomputers, but may have balked at the steep price tags for the 800 models ($449 and $499). Garmin has created an excellent pair of alternatives for touring cyclists in the new Edge Touring ($249) and Edge Touring Plus ($299) models.

The Touring models are based on the same chassis and screen as the 800s, with some high-end training features removed, but with maps and some new features more useful to touring cyclists added.

The new Touring Garmins are "GPS navigators designed for touring cyclists, commuters, mountain bikers and those seeking navigation on their handlebars," states Garmin. "Edge Touring and Edge Touring Plus work like a GPS navigator for a car, yet they are packed with bike-specific features, preloaded maps and POIs to help cyclists to find their way. They provide both on-road and off-road navigation and can provide round-trip ride options based on a set distance."

Round-Trip Routing

 New on the Touring models is the ability to create round-trip routing right on the cyclecomputer (rather than creating the route online in Garmin Connect online and then downloading it onto the bike computer). "With the new round trip routing feature, cyclists need only to input the distance they want to ride and Edge Touring will do the rest," states Garmin. "It will calculate up to three routes to choose from, including their distance and elevation profiles. Cyclists can compare the routes, choose the one to follow and are one tap of the screen away from turn-by-turn directions the entire way." Of course you still have the option of creating detailed routes exactly to your specifications on Garmin Connect and then downloading them to your Garmin Touring model as well.

Bike-Specific Maps

 The Garmin Touring models come with preloaded maps, that include points of interest such as restaurants and campgrounds, and have cycling, tour cycling and mountain biking modes to help determine the most appropriate routes. When you find a point of interest or an address you wish to travel to, the bike computer will provide you with turn-by-turn directions (a beep and distance stat indicates an upcoming turn) and visual guidance to your destination. Like other Garmin models, the Touring cyclecomputers let you upload and share completed rides to Garmin's excellent (and free) online Connect service.

Differences Compare to 800s

 So what don't the Touring models have, compared to the high-end 800 and 810, which also have mapping and turn-by-turn directions? Well, the 800s are designed to meet the needs of a serious trainer or racer, so they have an optional speed/cadence sensor, advanced workouts, virtual training partner, pace alerts, time/distance alerts, interval training, and power-meter compatibility.

Other than the lack of advanced training features, the Touring models have the same-size screen as the 800s, and are waterproof and shock resistant, always big advantages compared to using a smartphone.

Difference between the Touring Plus and Touring models? The Plus works with an optional wireless heart rate monitor, while the Touring model does not. Plus also has a barometric altimeter to supplement (and make more accurate) the GPS reading, as well as temperature display and logging.

Claimed battery life for the Touring models is up to 17 hours, and I've found that to be fairly accurate for the 800s. Keeping the cyclecomputer charged during extended tours could be a challenge for cyclists who won't be near a power source every evening. Some riders solve that with a small solar charger or portable battery pack. In my experience GPS cyclecomputers are worth the extra charging involved, thanks to their dramatically increased functionality and wireless operation, compared to non-GPS computers. With the Garmin Touring models, you really can leave your paper maps behind, especially if you supplement with a smartphone as most riders do.