Your clues this week are:Please email me your guesses over the coming week. I'll post the winner and correct answer with next week's guessing game. Good luck!The set of clues didn't seem that easy, but nearly everyone knew that it was Picasso and his Mama. (Many of you were also winners of my top secret Pithy Picasso Comment award.) I can't single anyone out because Sandy knocked me offline for a while and all of the answers came in at the same time. So congratulations, All, and thanks for participating!

As everyone on Earth probably knows by now, the US Eastern Seaboard was devastated by Hurricane Sandy. I feel comfortable speaking for my readers in saying we hold all of those affected in our thoughts. Among many other locations, Lower Manhattan is gallantly trying to cope with the mess that evil witch left in her wake. Many of the galleries in Chelsea saw flooding (although their staffs had wisely moved art out of harm's way beforehand), and power outages remain -- in fact, the New Museum is closed until power is restored. Things are a bit better farther uptown; The Met Museum, for one, will reopen for its regular hours tomorrow.In the midst of chaos and heartbreak, life does its best to go on. And to that end, please allow me to direct your attention to an upcoming exhibition by one of "our" artists: Malcolm D. MacDougall III . His show, Parallel Worlds, is scheduled to open on November 9 at 287 SPRING , a gallery and performance venue in the Hudson Square district. (I have no idea how 287 SPRING is faring, but it is many blocks *south* of the 14th Street Con Edison power station that exploded Monday night. Here's hoping that all is functional in Lower Manhattan soon.) If you have the chance and the inclination, treat yourself to Malcolm's show. It runs through Saturday, December 8, 2012. Oh, by the way: you know Parallel World's curator. It is our own, beloved Beth S. Gersh-Neic , wearing her Director of the New York Arts Exchange hat.(Monday, November 5): The opening of Parallel Worlds will happen this coming Friday as scheduled, and the New Museum is now open. Unfortunately, many galleries and artists' studios were not spared. If you can bear to look, Hrag Vartanian has been posting updates and photos of the unholy mess on Hyperallergic If you don't know of Hrag and his writing, you should.Malcolm D. MacDougall III, 2010(c) Malcolm D. MacDougall III