What Art Supplies Do You Need to Start Painting?

My advice and tips on the supplies and equipment you need to start painting, which are the best brands to buy and what can you do without.

Top Art Gifts of 2013

My 2013 selection of present ideas for creative friends and family.

Which Brand of Acrylic Paint is Best?

With so many different brands of acrylic paint on the market, how do you know which is best? Here's my choice of my favorite acrylics.

Best Painting Easels

An explanation of the various types of painting easels available, and what I think is the best choice (and why).

Best Brands of Watercolor Paint

With watercolor paints, there's not only a choice of brands, but also whether you buy it in tube or pan form. This is a list of my personal favorites when it comes to watercolor paints.

Brands of Pastels. Which Pastels are Best?

The best brands of pastels on the market, with reasons for the choices.

Best Artist's Magazines

There are magazines for artists at all levels, from complete beginners to artists wanting to improve their skills to professionals.

Best Water-Soluble Pencils and Crayons

My slit of the best brands of water-soluble pencils available.

Art Materials on a Budget

Tips on how to save money on art materials and make your budget go further.

Canvas: What You Need to Know

The term canvas serves as a generic term for any fabric that's used as a support for painting. The fabric can be cotton duck (the most common), linen (a more expensive choice regarded as superior), or a synthetic fiber (uncommon). Find out more about what your choices are when it comes to canvas for painting.

Photo Gallery: Inside Artists' Studios

Take a peek inside the studios of various painters in this photo gallery of artist's studios.

How to Assess a New Brand of Acrylic or Oil Paint

Tips on what to you look for when trying out a new paint brand and how to decide if it's likely to be money well spent.

How to Decide What Paint to Use

This Q&A help you decide between the most commonly used paints: oils, acrylics, watercolours, and pastels.

Review: RGM New Age Painting Knives

The New Age Painting Knives from RGM] are definitely not your usual painting knives. These painting knives come in all sorts of weird and unexpected shapes, perfect for creating texture and pattern in paint.

Gifts Ideas for Artists: Stocking Fillers and Small Art Gifts

Want to buy a small and inexpensive for an artist in your life? Here's a collection of gift ideas suitable as Christmas stocking fillers, birthdays, workshop presents, or any occasion you want to say "thank you" to an artist.

Gifts Ideas for Artists

If you're looking for an idea for a suitable gift for the artist in your life or a friend, look no further!

Gifts for Artists: When Money's No Object

Want to buy something extraordinary for the artist in your life? Here's a collection of ideas.

How Do I Measure Canvas on a Roll for Painting?

You've bought a roll of canvas, now find out how to get pieces to the sizes you need for painting.

Inside the Winsor & Newton Paint Factory

Photo from inside the Winsor and Newton paint factory, where watercolor, acrylic, and oil paints for artists are manufactured.

Winsor & Newton Artist's Acrylic Clear Gesso

My review of the clear gesso from Winsor and Newton in their artists' acrylic range.

Winsor & Newton Artist's Acrylic White Gesso

Find out what I thought of W&N white acrylic gesso in my review, how it is to use and what the result is like.

Camera Lucida from Ancient Magic Art Tools

A review of a camera lucida made by Ancient Magic Art Tools, which uses mirrors to make the subject appear on top of your paper so you can trace it.

Digital Art Paper

A roundup of the types of digital papers available that you can use in your art or for printing cards your paintings.

Printable Magnetic Paper

My impressions of the packet of printable magnetic paper I bought with a view to making fridge magnets of paintings.

An Introduction to Art Paint Brushes

An introduction to the different types of art paint brushes that you can use for painting.

Signs It's Time to Replace a Brush

Looked after well a paint brush will last some time, but watch out for these signs that it's time to replace it.

A Plein Air Easel

An easel you use for painting outdoors, or plein air, needs to be portable, easy to set up, and not blow away in the wind.

How to Make a Simple Easel

A diagram showing how to make an easel requiring only basic woodworking skills.

Tips on Buying Acrylic Painting Supplies

Acrylics have the advantage of drying faster than oil paints and being water soluble. Find out what you need to get started in acrylics and the things you should consider before you buy acrylic painting materials.

Tips on Buying Pastel Art Supplies

Pastels are sticks of ground pigment mixed with chalk and gum or oil, then shaped into 'drawing sticks'. Pastels cannot be mixed on a palette like paints, but are mixed on the paper by overlaying or blending. Find out what you should consider when buying pastels and pastel paper.

Can I Use Hairspray to Fix Pastel?

Finally, a scientific answer to the debate about whether it's okay to hairspray to fix pastel instead of artist's fixative.

Tips on Buying Watercolour Painting Supplies

If you're about to start painting with watercolours, you'll need to get a basic set of good-quality paints, a range of papers, and a few brushes. Find out what you need to consider before you buy.

Winsor & Newton Artist's Water Colour Large Pans

A review of Winsor & Newton's large pans in their artist's water color range, which come in a ceramic dish.

How to Make Paper

Step-by-step instructions on how to make paper from scrap or leftover paper (or failed paintings!).

How Do I Make My Own Charcoal?

Ever wondered how you'd go about making your own charcoal? Find out here.

Know Your Painting Brushes: Hairs and Bristles

What types of hairs and bristles are used in painting brushes and which are the best?

What is a Camera Lucida and How Does it Work?

A camera lucida can't teach you how to paint or draw, but will help you get the perspective accurate very quickly

Simply Spray Fabric and Stencil Paint

My review of the Simply Spray fabric and stencil paint.

Pastel Art Supplies: Review of Fabriano Tiziano Pastel Paper

This paper from Fabriano is a good, acid-free paper suitable for not only pastels, but also pencil, graphite, charcoal, and tempera.

Liquid Pencil

A review of Liquid Pencil, which as the name implies is a medium you use you would paint, except it dries to look like graphite pencil.

The Pencil Gets Reinvented

An innovative new design reinvents the ordinary pencil.

10 Essential Art Supplies for the Traditional Animator

If you're looking for a gift to buy someone who's a traditional animator, this list from About's Animation Guide Adrien-Luc Sanders will give you ideas, from paint to non-photo blue pencils.

Buddha Board

A review of the Buddha Board from About.com Painting.

Product Review: Acrylic Gloss Varnish

A look at Winsor and Newton's acrylic gloss varnish. It's definitely not cheap, but is it worth the money?

Left-Handed Paint Palette

If you're left-handed and want to paint holding a palette, it can be tricky to find a suitable palette.

Kolinsky Sable Brushes

Find out what the big deal is about Kolinsky sable brushes, why they're worth the money.

Best Art Materials and Books 2011 Readers' Choice Awards on About.com

Find out who were the finalists and winners of the Art Materials and Books categories of the 2011 About.com Readers' Choice Awards.

Raphael Mixacryl Brushes

My review of a mixed-fiber brush produced by Raphael (Sennelier) for acrylic painting.

Leftover Art Supplies: Using Up Paint

Don't throw away any leftover art supplies or paint, but put them to another creative use! Here are some ideas on how to use up paint.

Review: Genie Collapsible Big Canvas

Solve the problem of shipping large paintings by designing a canvas to roll up and go into an oversized tube.