Wouldn't it be great to preview color combinations on your house, before spending a lot of money on paint? You can, with digital painting tools. Just point and click to see rooms, furnishings, and house exteriors in many different colors. The software and online tools listed here are inexpensive, and most are FREE! Keep in mind, however, that your monitor cannot render colors precisely. Use these digital painting tools to explore possibilities, then test spot your chosen paints in a small area.

A key to a happy home is choosing the right exterior color. Photo by Anthony Bradshaw / Collection: Photographer's Choice / Getty Images Sign up for a free Colorjive account, and you can upload a photo of your house, experiment with thousands of colors, and save up to three different versions. You might not be able to render small details, but this online tool is so easy, you'll be able to "paint" your house in a matter of minutes. More features and options are available for a modest annual fee.

CBN Selector(tm) is a complex and powerful software program that lets you visualize thousands of colors on a variety of surfaces, including stucco and concrete. Once you've selected your colors, you'll have a precise "Color By Numbers" Code that will let you order the precise color mix from your local paint dealer. The software includes a calibration tool to display true digital colors on your own monitor. Download a free trial, and also look under "Products" on the CBN Systems website for their latest app for mobile devices.

The free paint color visualizer tool from the Benjamin Moore paint company lets you sample the look of interior or exterior color in your home. "See how paint colors will look before you pick up a paint brush," says the company. You have to register to use it, but the software application can be used online or downloaded to your own computer. The free paint color visualizer tool from the Benjamin Moore paint company lets you sample the look of interior or exterior color in your home. "See how paint colors will look before you pick up a paint brush," says the company. You have to register to use it, but the software application can be used online or downloaded to your own computer.

Use the easy, free version on EzyPaint online, or pay to download the more sophisticated version which includes a drawing and mapping tool that lets you fine tune the areas you want to color. The Ezypaint software programs are available for PC or Mac, and will let you view thousands of colors manufactured by the New Zealand paint company, Resene. Use the easy, free version on EzyPaint online, or pay to download the more sophisticated version which includes a drawing and mapping tool that lets you fine tune the areas you want to color. The Ezypaint software programs are available for PC or Mac, and will let you view thousands of colors manufactured by the New Zealand paint company, Resene.

Upload a photo and use the easy online tools to try out Valspar paint colors, which are available at Lowe's home improvement stories. Free.

Select a photograph that most closely resembles the style of your house, then choose the Sherwin-William palette to experiment with color combinations. Free. Select a photograph that most closely resembles the style of your house, then choose the Sherwin-William palette to experiment with color combinations. Free.

What more can you say about award-winning free software that does what you want it to do? One more thing -- Paint.NET is on the About.com list of What more can you say about award-winning free software that does what you want it to do? One more thing -- Paint.NET is on the About.com list of Top 10 Free Photo Editors for Windows , compiled by the Guide to Graphics Software.