Reflecting Pool Memorial of the South Tower, looking toward the National September 11 Memorial Museum, taken in April 2012

Do we really want to remember the past? How much horror should be preserved? These questions will surely haunt the visitors flocking to the National September 11 Memorial Museum, which opened to the public on May 21, 2014.

The entryway Pavilion features a glass atrium where the museum guest is immediately confronted by two steel tridents salvaged from the destroyed Twin Towers. The underground Memorial Museum displays more of the architectural salvage from the terrorist attacks. Some say there's too much stuff. Others have fought to preserve the memory.

Future generations may ask what happened here, and the Museum details the 9-11 Attack on the World Trade Center. This is where it happened. As an area subject to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, the Memorial Plaza and now the Memorial Museum does preserve the memory of that day in 2001. Architects have realized the historic preservation.

Near the memorial waterfalls set in the footprints of the downed Twin Towers sits a large, steel and glass entryway to the National September 11 Memorial Museum. This Pavilion is the only aboveground structure on the 9/11 Memorial Plaza.

The Norwegian architecture firm Snohetta spent nearly a decade designing and redesigning a structure that would satisfy the project's many stakeholders. Some say its design is like a leaf, complementing Santiago Calatrava's bird-like Transportation Hub nearby. Others see it as a glass shard permanently imbedded--like a bad memory--into the landscape of the Memorial Plaza.

Bringing light, air, and water into the depths below, the Pavilion transitions the visitor from street-level remembrance down into the a place of memory, the Museum below. "Our desire," says Snohetta co-founder Craig Dykers, "is to allow visitors to find a place that is a naturally occurring threshold between the everyday life of the city and the uniquely spiritual quality of the Memorial."

The transparency of the glass design promotes an invitation for visitors to enter into the Museum and learn more. Peeking through the glass, we see steel beams rescued from the Twin Towers, reminding us of that day's terror and the architecture that was quick to be destroyed on 9/11/01.

The 9/11 National Museum is mostly below ground level, within the empty spaces left when the Twin Towers fell and the rubble was removed. The New York-based architectural firm of Davis Brody Bond (DBB)--in particular, the vision of J. Max Bond, Jr.--transformed the vast spaces where the skyscrapers' roots once took hold. A series of walkways, with plateau-like overlooks, lead visitors seven levels underground in what the architects have described as a process of "progressive disclosure." The final destination is the bedrock.

An early design had water cascading deep underground from the memorial waterfalls above. Today, as one walks around the corners of the Twin Tower footprints--now the base of the memorials above--DBB has re-created the story of a disaster by allowing the building site to tell its own story. DBB's mission was to carry out the museum's mission, that is "to bear solemn witness to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and February 26, 1993."

Historic preservation of the area was not only desirable for DBB's design, but also a legal requirement. Where the Twin Towers rose and fell is a protected historic area, just like many of our National Parks and historic houses and landmarks. "Where most museums are buildings that house artifacts," says Alice M. Greenwald, the Museum's Director, "this Museum has been built within an artifact."

The Museum is literally "built in a contemporary archaeological site."  The 9/11 Museum displays some of the architectural materials and engineering left behind, including:

The two underground areas of the original towers are dedicated to two exhibits--a people-centered memorial exhibition under the South Tower and a building-centered historical exhibit under the North Tower. The essence of what we call architecture--people and the structures they build--is the basis of the National September 11 Memorial Museum.

The area in Lower Manhattan where Yamasaki's Twin Towers once stood is now sacred ground. The dust and bones of thousands who died there on September 11, 2001 have made the once-commercial site a hallowed cemetery of sorts--certainly a final resting place for those who lost their lives and a place of remembrance for those left behind. For this "sacred zone," California-based Peter Walker (PWP Landscape Architecture) designed a tree-lined plaza that mimics the facade of Yamasaki's building.

Thirty-foot waterfall memorials designed by architect Michael Arad are in the exact locations where the Twin Towers once soared skyward. Arad's Reflecting Absence was the first design to break the plane between above- and below-ground, as the water descends toward the broken foundations of the fallen skyscrapers and to the Memorial Museum below.

The Memorial Plaza designed by Walker and Arad, opened to the public since September 11, 2011, was the beginning of healing. The Memorial Museum by Snohetta and DBB ensures we remember.

Sources: National September 11 Memorial Museum Pavilion, Snohetta website; Message from the Museum Director and Memorial Museum FAQ, National September 11 Memorial & Museum [accessed May 13, 16, 2014]