This alphabetical directory will lead you to information about the world's greatest architects, builders, and designers, from Alvar Aalto to Peter Zumthor.

Aalto: Alvar Aalto, Father of Modern Scandinavian Architecture

Alvar Aalto's passion for painting led to the development of his unique architectural style. Explore the live and works of Alvar Aalto, father of Modern Scandinavian Architecture.

Abele: Julian Abele

The first African-American graduate of the Univ. of Pennsylvania's School of Architecture is also well-known at North Carolina's Duke University. Learn more about Philadelphia architect, Julian Abele.

Arad: Michael Arad, National 9/11 Memorial

As a young architect, Michael Arad's life and career was changed after winning the design competition for the National Memorial at the site of the World Trade Center in New York City.

Ban: Shigeru Ban, 2014 Pritzker Laureate

Japanese architect Shigeru Ban, a pioneer in industrial-strength paper tube emergency shelters and shipping container housing, became the seventh Japanese architect to become a Pritzker Laureate.

Bond: J. Max Bond, Jr., New York Visionary

With his firm, New York Architect J. Max Bond, Jr. helped develop plans for the National 9/11 Museum. Learn more about Black American architect J. Max Bond, Jr.

Brown: Denise Scott Brown, Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates

In addition to her role in the firm she established with her husband, Robert Venturi, Denise Scott Brown has made major achievements in the field of urban design.

Burnham: Daniel Burnham, Chicago Planner

Daniel Burnham is famous for his urban design in Chicago and also for pioneering skyscrapers like New York's iconic Flatiron building.

Calatrava: Santiago Calatrava, Architect and Engineer

Spanish modernist Santiago Calatrava is an architect and engineer who designs beautiful, organic structures, including the new transportation hub for the World Trade Center at Ground Zero. Learn more.

Childs: David, SOM Design Partner

David Childs' forty year relationship with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill (SOM) allowed the firm and the architect to grow and prosper from Washington, DC to New York City. Learn more about David Childs.

Corbusier: Le Corbusier, Leader of the International Style

Le Corbusier pioneered modernism in architecture and laid the foundation for Bauhaus, or the International Style. Here are facts about Le Corbusier's life and works with links to resources for learning more about the architecture of le Corbusier

DaVinci: Leonardo DaVinci, Artist and Inventor

Master of the Italian Renaissance, Leonardo DaVinci influenced the way we build today through his research and contributions to the fields of anatomy, physiology, mechanics, hydraulics, physics, philosophy, mathematics, writing, engineering, philosophy, orbital mechanics, botany, and optics.

Decq: Odile Decq, French Architect for the 21st Century

French-born Odile Decq is an award-winning artist, educator, and architect. Learn more about her life and career.

Diller: Elizabeth Diller of diller scofidio + renfro

Elizabeth Diller is an artist, educator, and architect living in New York City. Discover her varied interests in this profile.

Eames: Charles & Ray Eames, American Designers

Famous for their furniture and industrial designs, the husband and wife team Charles & Ray Eames also made important contributions to architecture.

Dominick: Peter Dominick, Denver Architect

Peter Dominick of 4240 Architecture was especially known for designs that incorporated motifs drawn from the American West. Learn about the work of architect Peter Dominick

Eisenman: Peter Eisenman, Modernist Architect

Modernist architect Peter Eisenman has stirred controversy with buildings that appear disconnected from surrounding structures and historical context.

Fehn: Sverre Fehn, Norwegian Architect

Norwegian Architect Sverre Fehn was a Modernist, yet he was inspired by primitive shapes and Scandinavian tradition. Fehn's works were widely praised for integrating innovative new designs with the natural world.

Foster: Sir Norman Foster, High-Tech Architect

British architect Norman Foster is famous for buildings that explore technology. Learn about Norman Foster's life and works.

Fuller: Richard Buckminster Fuller (Bucky), Architect and Philosopher

Explore the life and works of R. Buckminster Fuller (Bucky), the architect, philosopher, and poet who conceived the geodesic dome.

Furness: Frank Furness, Philadelphia's Gilded Age Master

Elaborate architecture flourished during America's Guilded Age, and Frank Furness designed some of the most flamboyant. During his career, Frank Furness designed more than 600 buildings, mostly in Philadelphia and the Northeast USA.

Gehry: Frank Gehry, Deconstructivist Architect

You may know Frank Gehry for his unconventional, twisted buildings, but this modernism architect has done much more. Learn about Frank Gehry's life and works.

Garnier: Charles Garnier, Designer of the Paris Opera

French architect Charles Garnier combined the classicism of Renaissance architecture with ornate Beaux Arts ideas when he designed the famous Paris Opera House. Learn about Garnier's life and works.

Gaudi: Antoni Gaudi, Spanish Modernist Architect

Spanish architect Antoni Gaudi became known for his amazing, surreal buildings, including the famous Sagrada Familia church. Find photos and information for buildings by Antoni Gaudi.

Gilbert: Cass Gilbert, Skyscraper Pioneer

Cass Gilbert had enormous influence on the development of architecture in the United States. He is best known for his gothic skyscraper, the Woolworth Building, which was the world's tallest building at the time.

Goff: Bruce Goff, 20th Century Architect

Expressive and original, Goff's buildings were often constructed with throw-away materials such as cake pans, steel pipe, rope, cellophane, and ash trays.

Goodhue: Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue, Ecclesiastical Architect

American architect Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue revolutionized church architecture, popularized Hispanic styles, and went on to explore classical forms. Learn about architect Bertram Goodhue.

Graham: Bruce Graham, Chicago Skyscraper Architect

A leading architect for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, Bruce Graham transformed Chicago's skyline, designing some of the City's most famous skyscrapers.

Graves: Michael Graves, Architect and Product Designer

Postmodern architect Michael graves combines whimsy with sophisticated styling for his product designs and postmodern buildings, including many for the Disney Corporation.

Gray: Eileen Gray, Furniture Designer and Architect

Eileen Gray's contributions were overlooked for many years, but she is now considered one of the most influential designers of modern times. Many Art Deco and Bauhaus architects and designers found inspiration in Eileen Gray's unique style.

Gwathmey: Charles Gwathmey, Modernist Architect

With Robert Siegel, Modernist architect Charles Gwathmey is a partner in the New York firm Gwathmey Siegel & Associates.

Griffin: Walter Burley Griffin, the Man Who Made Canberra

Chicago architect Walter Burley Griffin had worked with Frank Lloyd Wright and was a pioneer in Prairie style architecture. He and his wife, Marion Mahony, moved their practice to Australia after Walter Burley won an international competiton to design capital city of Canberra.

Gropius: Walter Gropius, Bauhaus Architect

Walter Gropius was a German architect and art educator who founded the Bauhaus school of design, which became a dominant force in architecture and the applied arts in the 20th century.

Hadid: Zaha Hadid, First Woman to Win a Pritzker Prize

From parking garages and ski-jumps to vast urban landscapes, Zaha Hadid's works have been called bold, unconventional, and theatrical. The Iraqi-born British architect was the first woman to win a prestigious Pritzker Prize.

Herzog & de Meuron: Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron

Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron are two important Swiss architects known for innovative construction using new materials and techniques. The two architects have nearly parallel careers.

Holabird: William Holabird, Skyscraper Pioneer

Along with his partner Martin Roche, William Holabird forged America's early skyscrapers and launched an architectural style known as the Chicago School.

Hood: Raymond Hood, Art Deco Architect

Your starting place for exploring the life and works of Raymond Hood, an American architect who moved from the Neo-Gothic style to Art Deco and streamlined modern styles.

Hunt: Richard Morris Hunt, Architect of the Gilded Age

American "Gilded Age" architect Richard Morris Hunt became famous for designing elaborate homes for the very wealthy. However, he worked on many different types of buildings including libraries, civic buildings, apartment buildings, and art museums.

Jefferson: Thomas Jefferson, Gentleman Architect

Thomas Jefferson is not thought of as an architect, except by the people of Virginia, including Jefferson himself. Learn more about the architecture of the third President of the United States.

Isozaki: Arata Isozaki, Japanese Architect

Born and educated in Japan, architect Arata Isozaki often integrates Eastern ideas into his building designs.

Ito: Toyo Ito

Pritzker Prize Laureate Toyo Ito has created a legacy of modern, expressive, and site specific architecture for Japan and the world.

Jenney: William LeBaron Jenney, Father of the American Skyscraper

William LeBaron Jenney is known as the Father of the American Skyscraper. Here are facts about his life and works, with links to further information.

Johnson: Philip Johnson, Pritzker Prize Laureate

The Pritzker Prize-winning architect Philip Johnson designed the Seagram Building, the AT&T Headquarters, the Transco Tower, and his own glass-walled home in Connecticut.

Jones: A. Quincy Jones, Southern California Architect

Architect A. Quincy Jones brought thoughtful, sensitive, modern designs to an area of the U.S. well-known for its wealth and opulence.

Kahn: Louis Kahn, Modernist Architect

Louis I. Kahn competed only a few buildings, yet he is widely considered one of the great architects of the twentieth century.

Keichline: Anna Keichline, Inventor of the K Brick

Anna Keichline was the first woman to become a registered architect of Pennsylvania, but she is best known for inventing the hollow, fireproof "K Brick," which was a precursor to the modern concrete block.

Lin: Maya Lin, Architect and Sculptor

After her famous Vietnam Veterans Memorial, architect and artist Maya Lin designed many large, minimalist memorials and art installations. Learn more.

Knoll: Florence Knoll, Architect of Corporate Interiors

Florence Knoll didn't set out to transform the modern office building, but she did. Her interior designs are much more than decorating. Learn about this pioneering architect.

Koolhaas: Rem Koolhaas, Modern Dutch Architect

Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas has been called in turns Modernist and Deconstructivist, yet many critics claim that he leans toward Humanism. Koolhaas's work searches for a link between technology and humanity.

Libeskind: Daniel Libeskind, WTC Master Planner

Architect Daniel Libeskind is perhaps best known designing a master plan for the New York World Trade Center after terrorists attacked. However, Libeskind's accomplishments are far-reaching, with important projects around the world.

Link: Theodore Link, Missouri Architect

Missouri architect Theodore Link designed more than a hundred buildings and is credited with many innovations. Learn more.

Loos: Adolf Loos, Vienna's Modernist Architect

Adolf Loos was an architect who became more famous for his ideas than for his buildings. He believed that reason should determine the way we build, and he opposed the decorative Art Nouveau movement.

Mackintosh: Charles Rennie Mackintosh, Art Nouveau Designer

With his wife, Margaret MacDonald, Charles Rennie Mackintosh pioneered modern design in Scotland, and their Art Nouveau works helped lay the foundation for the Arts & Crafts movement in Britain.

Maki: Fumihiko Maki, Japanese Modernist

Fumihiko Maki's design was chosen to rebuild World Trade Center Tower 4 in Lower Manhattan. This high-profile project, however, comes after a long career of successes. Learn more about this Pritzker Laureate.

Maybeck: Bernard Maybeck, Eclectic California Architect

Bernard Maybeck was a California architect whose eclectic style shows many different influences.

Meier: Richard Meier, Architect of the Getty Center

A common theme runs through Richard Meier's striking, white designs. The sleek porcelain-enameled cladding and stark glass forms have been described as "purist," "sculptural," and "Neo-Corbusian."

Mayne: Thom Mayne, 20th Century Architect

20th century architect Thom Mayne has won many awards for designing buildings that move beyond modernism and postmodernism. Mayne won the Pritzker Architecture in 2005. Join us for a photo tour of Thom Mayne's most famous buildings.

Mayne: Thom Mayne

Winner of the 2005 Pritzker Architecture Prize, Connecticut-born Thom Mayne uses his California-based firm, Morphosis, to create a unique American architecture. Learn more about the freewheeling rebelliousness of this late twentieth century designer.

McKim: Charles Follen McKim, 19th Century American Architect

From grand Beaux Arts buildings to relaxed Shingle Style houses, Charles Fallen McKim explored important ideas of the 19th century.

Mies van der Rohe, Modern Architect

Modern architect Mies van der Rohe is both loved and hated. Some people say that he stripped architecture of all humanity, creating cold, sterile and unlivable environments. Others praise his work, saying he created architecture in its most pure form. Learn about the life and work of architect Mies van der Rohe.

Mendes da Rocha: Paulo Mendes da Rocha, Modernist Architect

Pritzker prize-winning architect Paulo Mendes da Rocha is known for bold simplicity and an innovative use of concrete and steel.

Michelangelo: Michelangelo Buonarroti

Michelangelo, or Michelangelo Buonarroti, is famous for painting elaborate Biblical scenes on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, but most of his career was devoted to architecture. The Laurentian Library in Florence and the dome of the Vatican's St. Peter's Basilica are his most important works of architecture.

Mizner: Addison Mizner, Resort Architect

Explore the life and works of Addison Mizner, noted for his Spanish Revival buildings and Florida resort architecture.

Murcutt: Glenn Murcutt, Architect and Environmentalist

Australian architect Glenn Murcutt pours his creativity into smaller projects that let him work alone and design economical buildings that will conserve energy and blend with the environment. Learn about the work of Glenn Murcutt

Morgan: Julia Morgan, Designer of Hearst Castle

Your starting place for exploring the life and works of Julia Morgan, designer of Hearst Castle and one of America's most important and prolific architects.

Morris: William Morris, Artist, designer and writer

Famous for his wall coverings, stained glass, carpets, and tapestries, William Morris helped launch the Arts & Crafts movement. Learn about his life and find quotes, publications, and other resources.

Murdoch: Paul and Milena Murdoch, Flight 93 Memorial

Architects Paul and Milena Murdoch won the design competition for the Flight 93 National Memorial built in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. This husband and wife team is also known in southern California for their public projects and as educators.

Neutra: Richard Neutra, Pioneer of the International Style

Born and educated in Europe, Richard Neutra introduced the International Style to America, and also introduced Los Angeles design to Europe.

Niemeyer: Oscar Niemeyer, Brazilian Modernist

Brazil's modernist architect Oscar Niemeyer changed the face of his country.

Palladio: Andrea Palladio, Renaissance Architect

The Renaissance architect Andrea Palladio reawakened the Western World to the wonders of Classical design.

Nishizawa: Ryue Nishizawa, Sejima and Nishizawa and Associates

Japanese architect Ryue Nishizawa works collaboratively with Kazuyo Sejima. Their firm, Sejima and Nishizawa and Associates (SANAA), is praised for designing powerful, minimalist buildings using common, everyday materials. Ryue Nishizawa and Kazuyo Sejima share the 2010 Pritzker Architecture Prize.

Nouvel: Jean Nouvel, Architect of Light and Shadow

Taking cues from the environment, flamboyant French architect Jean Nouvel places an emphasis on light and shadow. Learn more about the life and works of the Pritzker Prize-winning Jean Nouvel.

Pei: Ieoh Ming Pei, Pritzker Prize Laureate

The Pritzker Prize-winning architect I.M. Pei tends to use large, abstract forms and sharp, geometric designs. His glass clad structures seem to spring from the high tech modernist movement. However, Pei is more concerned with function than theory.

Olmsted: Frederick Law Olmsted, Father of American Landscape Design

Frederick Law Olmsted (1822-1903) was a landscape architect before the profession was founded. He was a visionary who foresaw the need for national parks, devised one of America's first regional plans, and designed America's first large suburban community.

Pallasmaa: Juhani Pallasmaa, Finnish Architect

Juhani Pallasmaa is an enormously prolific architect involved in architectural, product, and graphic design. He is also a writer and lecturer on topics related to cultural philosophy, environmental psychology, and architectural theory.

Pelli: Cesar Pelli, Creator of the Petronas Towers

Cesar Pelli has become known as a master designer of public spaces. He designed the Petronas Towers in Malaysia, which are among the tallest skyscrapers in the world.

Piano: Renzo Piano, Pritzker Prize-Winning Architect

Renzo Piano is often called a "High-Tech" architect because his designs showcase technological shapes and materials. However, human needs and comfort are at the center of Piano's designs.

Post: George B. Post, Architect of the American Renaissance

The buildings of George Post still can be seen throughout the Northeast U.S. Learn more about this prominent American architect.

Richardson: Henry Hobson Richardson, "Romanesque" Architect

Known for heavy stone buildings with Roman arches, Victorian architect Henry Hobson Richardson launched the style known as Richardsonian Romanesque.

Roche: Kevin Roche, Irish-American Architect

Pritzker Laureate Kevin Roche apprenticed with Eero Saarinen but made his own mark in the architectural world by partnering with John Dinkeloo. Learn more in this short profile.

Roebling: John Augustus Roebling, Man of Iron

John Roebling did not invent the suspension bridge nor the wire roping that made suspension bridges possible. However, his ingenious use of these materials made him famous.

Rogers: Richard Rogers, High Tech Architect

British architect Richard Rogers is famous for designing high tech buildings with exposed structural elements. Find facts and see photos of his works.

Safdie: Moshe Safdie, International Architect

Moshe Safdie has achieved international acclaim from a variety of building projects. His very early success with residential architecture, Habitat '67, did not pigeonhole his practice and career in architecture.

Siegel: Robert Siegel, Modernist Architect

With Charles Gwathmey, Robert Siegel is a partner in the New York firm Gwathmey Siegel & Associates.

Ruskin: John Ruskin, Writer, Critic, Artist & Philosopher

Writer and philosopher championed the Gothic Revival style and set the stage for the Arts & Crafts movement in architecture.

Schindler: Rudolf Schindler

Born in Vienna, Rudolf Schindler pioneered the modernist movement in the USA. Here's an overview of Schindler's work from architectuul.com.

Sejima: Kazuyo Sejima, Sejima and Nishizawa and Associates

Japanese architect Kazuyo Sejima works collaboratively with Ryue Nishizawa. Their firm, Sejima and Nishizawa and Associates (SANAA), is praised for designing powerful, minimalist buildings using common, everyday materials. Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa share the 2010 Pritzker Architecture Prize.

Shu: Wang Shu, Architect Scholar

The first architect in China to win a Pritzker Prize, Wang Shu is a scholar and a craftsman. Learn about Wang Shu's career and find links to information about his buildings.

Sullivan: Louis Sullivan, America's First Modern Architect

Louis Sullivan is widely considered America's first truly modern architect. Instead of imitating historic styles, he created original forms and details.

Sklarek: Norma Sklarek, Breaking Barriers for Women and African-Americans

Norma Merrick Sklarek became important for her architectural projects and also for her role in breaking racial and gender barriers. Her many works include a new terminal, serving 10 million annual passengers, for Los Angeles International Airport.

Snohetta: Snohetta Architects

The Snohetta architecture firm from Norway has designed important projects around the world, including the proposed National 9/11 Museum in New York. Learn more.

Souto de Moura: Eduardo Souto de Moura

Find facts about the 2011 Pritzker Prize winner, Eduardo Souto de Moura of Portugal, and see photos of his works.

Utzon: Jrn Utzon, Architect of the Sydney Opera House

Born in Denmark, Jrn Utzon was perhaps destined to design buildings that evoke the sea. He was the architect for the famous and controversial Sydney Opera House in Australia.

Stern: Robert A.M. Stern, Postmodern Architect

New York architect Robert A. M. Stern designs buildings that express affection for the past. Stern has designed many buildings for Walt Disney World in Florida.

St.Florian: Friedrich St.Florian, WWII Memorial Designer

Born in Austria, 1932, this Providence, Rhode Island architect is best known as a teacher and the Design Architect for the WWII Memorial in Washington, D.C.

Stone: Edward Durell Stone

American architect Edward Durell Stone rejected modernist International styles after meeting Frank Lloyd Wright in 1940. Learn more about Stone's evolution as an architect from this brief profile.

Torre: Susana Torre, Feminist Architect and Planner

Feminism shapes the teaching, writing, and architectural design of Postmodernist architect Susana Torre.

Tyng: Anne Tyng, Living in Geometry

Anne Tyng never designed a building, yet she is widely considered the greatest influence of Louis Kahn's success as an architect.

Venturi: Robert Venturi, Postmodern Architect

Husband and wife team Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown are known for architecture steeped in popular symbolism. Kitsch becomes art in designs which exaggerate or stylize cultural icons. Mocking the austerity of modernist architecture, Venturi is famous for saying, "Less is a bore."

Vignola: Giacomo da Vignola, Renaissance Architect

Famous for his treatise, The Five Orders of Architecture, the Renaissance architect Giacomo da Vignola transformed architecture in the Western World.

Webb: Philip Webb, Arts & Crafts Architect and Designer

Designing furniture, textiles, and grand country homes, Philip Webb helped introduce the Arts & Crafts movement in Great Britain.

Wexler: Donald Wexler, Palm Springs Modernist

Architect Donald Wexler became a leading figure during the 1950s and 1960s, and pioneered important ideas in prefab construction. Learn more and see photos of his work.

White: Stanford White, Gilded Age Architect

Stanford White was an important Gilded Age architect who worked with Henry Hobson Richardson and the firm McKim, Mead & White. Learn about his life and works.

Williams-Ellis: Sir Clough Williams-Ellis, Designer of Portmeirion

Sir Clough Williams-Ellis devoted his life to the cause of environmental preservation. Learn about the life and works of Clough Williams-Ellis, creator of Portmeirion, Wales.

Williams: Paul Williams, Hollywood Architect

Paul Williams, a Black American, became renown for designing major buildings such the Los Angeles International Airport and over 2000 homes in Southern California. Many of the most beautiful houses in Hollywood were created by Paul Williams.

Wright: Frank Lloyd Wright, America's Most Famous Architect

Explore the life and works of America's most famous architect, Frank Lloyd Wright. On this page you'll find links to photos, quotes, resources, and a master index of all his works.

Wren: Sir Christopher Wren, The Architect Who Rebuilt London

British architect Sir Christopher Wren influenced Georgian architecture in England and Colonial America. Learn more.

Zumthor: Peter Zumthor, Swiss Architect

Pritzker Prize-winning architect Peter Zumthor is often praised for the detailed craftsmanship of his designs.