No more silly paper weights. We've scouted the Web to find unusual and useful gifts for architects and builders, new homeowners and old house rehabbers, and anyone with a fascination for buildings and design. Some of the gifts are serious, and some are comical. Some are pricey, and some barely cost more than a lump of coal. But you'll know you've found the perfect present when you are tempted to buy an extra -- for yourself.

Give the gift of learning. Treat your loved one with a museum pass or guided tours to great buildings around the world. Use these resources find amazing architecture journeys.

Here's a gift idea that will give hours of joy - a toy! But these are no ordinary toys. Each is a complex model, kit, or puzzle that will challenge and enthrall anyone who has a passion to build.

The world's great architects didn't just design buildings -- they also created chairs, tables and sofas. Several companies offer reproduction furnishings by Charles Edouart Jeanneret, Mies van der Rohe, Marcel Breuer, Eileen Gray and other designers. Explore our extensive listing of Famous Furniture.

Computer Aided Design programs for pros can be complicated, but there are plenty of simple computer programs geared for home hobbyists. Download these applications and spend the holidays creating easy floorplans, landscapes, and 3D images.

Is your special person a Bungalow lover? Give a subscription to American Bungalow magazine. For every architectural interest there is a publication -- Browse our magazine directory for top picks.

People who love skyscrapers will be awed and inspired by glossy photo books of the world's tallest buildings. Our listing includes books on Classical, Art Deco, Expressionist, Modernist, and Postmodernist buildings... some with fold-out and pop-up pages.

Since the dawn of Hollywood, highrises have played leading roles in the movies. If you're not a fan of film fiction, check out our lists of documentaries--Movies About Architects and Movies About Architecture. Otherwise, here are our favorite skyscraper films available for the home market.

If you think pop-up books are just for children, check out these sophisticated titles. With detailed artwork and complex "paper engineering" these fascinating pop-up books are sure to delight adult readers.

Surely no work of architecture is more photogenic than a castle. These lavish books are filled with lush photos of castles and castle-like structures from medieval to modern times.