Explore these links to learn about monuments, memorials, statues, and other magnificent structures designed to honor and commemorate.

Washington Monument Illumination - Shining a Light on Architecture

The Washington Memorial, built between 1848 and 1884, offers many challenges to the lighting designer. Exterior illumination evolves with technology -- an art with many considerations, as shown in these photos.

Great Monuments and Memorials

This master index includes some of the world's most iconic memorials, from the Arc de Triomphe to the Vietnam Memorial.

Pictures of Monuments and Memorials

Monuments can be grand in scale or small markers of time and place. These images present a range of how humans memorialize events and people both locally and nationally.

Memorial Architecture and Art: Reactions to Terrorism

These powerful monuments and memorials honor victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks and mark the event for children too young to remember.

National 9/11 Memorial

Years in the making, the National 9/11 Memorial, originally known as Reflecting Absence, honors those lost on September 11, 2001, and also those who died when terrorists bombed the New York Trade Center in 1993.

National 9/11 Museum

Honoring the memory of terrorist victims and documenting the events of September 11, 2001, the National 9/11 Museum takes visitors on a journey of preservation. Learn more about this part of Lower Manhattan's reconstruction.

The Berlin Holocaust Memorial

Architect Peter Eisenman stirred controversy when he unveiled plans for the Berlin Holocaust Memorial. Critics protest that the Memorial is too abstract and does not present historical information about the Nazi campaign against the Jews. Other people say that the Memorial resembles a vast field of nameless tombstones and captures the horror of the Nazi death camps.

Learn the history and meaning of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and visit...

Learn the history and meaning of the Tomb of the Unknowns and visit other tombs at Arlington National Cemetery.

Monumental Architecture

In nearly every part of the world, ancient peoples have constructed enormous monuments. What is "monumental architecture" and what role does it play in human civilization?

Maya Lin's Early Design for Vietnam Veterans Memorial

Maya Lin received the credit, but two other architects helped the young Yale University architecture student realize the National Vietnam Veteran's Memorial in Washington, DC.

Maya Lin's Winning Poster Presentation

Maya Lin's sketches for the Vietnam Veterans Memorial were so abstract and simple that she depended on a one-page description to communicate her vision. See her poster presentation and read her words.