Find great buildings, monuments, cathedrals, towers, and other important architecture in Europe, Eastern Europe, and the Mediterranean, including Spain, France, Italy, Austria, Germany, Russia, the Czech Republic, Greece, and Turkey.

Architecture in Austria

Your starting place for exploring architecture in Vienna, Austria, with photos, features, and links.

Architecture in France

Your starting place for exploring architecture in France, with photos, features, and links.

Architecture in Italy

Italy has so many architectural wonders, where do you begin? This quick guide has links and resources to help you plan your architectural tour.

Architecture in Prague

Explore the streets of Old Town Prague in the Czech Republic and you will find great buildings that span the centures. Gothic, Baroque, Beaux Arts, Art Nouveau, and Art Deco architecture stand side by side along narrow, winding roads.

Architecture in Russia

From onion domes to neo-gothic skyscrapers, the architecture of Russia reflects many cultures. Here are facts and photos for landmark buildings, plus links and resources.

Architecture in Spain

Your starting place for exploring architecture in Spain, with photos, features, and links.

Favorite Architecture in Spain

Spain! From the ancient Alhambra Palace to modernist works by Santiago Calatrava, the sunny country offers an exotic mix of architecture. Browse these pages to see photos and reviews submitted by our readers. See submissions

Adolf Loos House

Franz Josef, emperor of Austria, was outraged when Adolf Loos built the stark Goldman and Salatsch Building directly across Michaelerplatz from the Imperial Palace. Facts and photos.

Alhambra Palace

Some of the world's finest examples of Moorish architecture can be found at Alhambra Palace, or the Red Castle, in Granada, Spain.

Cathedrals in France

Follow this suggested itinerary for your own tour of France's most important cathedrals, with stops in Paris, Strasbourg, Nice, Rodez, Lourdes, and Chartres.

Hundertwasser-Haus in Vienna, Austria

Viennese artist Friedensreich Hundertwasser created the colorful Hundertwasser-Haus with architect Joseph Krawina. Learn about the amazing Hundertwasser House in Vienna, Austria.

Russian Architecture and Design in Sochi, 2014

Designing a community for an Olympic event involves urban development, sports architecture, residential construction, and plenty of politics. How did Russia do for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi?