The following historic houses are open to visitors. Here are photos and histories of the buildings.

Elvis Honeymoon Hideaway

Built by the Alexander Construction Company, this Palm Springs home became a private retreat for Elvis and Priscilla Presley.

Farnsworth House

Hovering in a green landscape near Chicago, the transparent glass Farnsworth House by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe offers tours and educational programs.

Frank Lloyd Wright House Tours

Frank Lloyd Wright designed hundreds of homes, including the world-famous Fallingwater. Browse this directory to find a Frank Lloyd Wright building in your area. Many homes are privately owned, so be sure to check the Web sites to find out whether tours are available.

Frey House II in Palm Springs, California

Perched on the mountainside in Palm Springs, California, the Frey House II is a modernist landmark by architect Albert Frey. Frey House II is only rarely open for tours, but you can view photos here.

Graceland Mansion

The Colonial Revival Graceland Mansion was home to rock star Elvis Presley from 1957 until his death on August 16, 1977. Join us for a photo tour of the house.

Great American Mansions

Find photos and information for historic mansions, manor homes, summer homes, and family compounds constructed by the successful business people in the United States

Gilded Age Homes

Find Gilded Age homes to tour, and also grand Gilded Age mansions where you can spend the night.

Mark Twain House

American author Samuel Clemens (better known as Mark Twain) made his home in an elaborate Victorian in Harford, Connecticut. See photos.

Monticello

Thomas Jefferson's famous domed home in Virginia is modeled after the work of Renaissance architect Andrea Palladio.

Newport Mansions

Newport, Rhode Island has eleven historic mansions open for tours. Find out about the lavish homes built by the Vanderbilts and other wealthy industrialists from America's gilded age.

Oldest Wooden Schoolhouse, St. Augustine Florida

This tiny house is thought to be the oldest wood school building in the United States. By examining its construction, you can see how buildings were made in America's colonies.

Olson House

You can tour the Maine farmhouse made famous in Andrew Wyeth's painting Christina's World. Learn about the house and plan your trip.

Philip Johnson's Glass House

Made entirely of glass, the Connecticut home of architect Philip Johnson is now open for tours. Also see Johnson's works on the expansive grounds.

Walter Gropius House

After leaving Germany, Bauhaus architect Walter Gropius constructed this modest home in Lincoln, Massachusetts. The Walter Gropius house is open for tours.

White House in Washington D.C.

The president's home, known as the White House, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Washington DC.

Harriet Beecher Stowe House

Built in 1871, this writer's home is a nice example of a 19th-century cottage.

Kent Plantation House

Located in Alexandria, Louisiana, this authentic French Creole Plantation House was built in about 1796.

Olana

The exotic Moorish style home of Hudson River School painter Frederic Church. Church called the house "Persian, adapted to the Occident." Located on 250 acres, two hours north of New York City.

Winchester Mystery House

This Victorian mansion in San Jose, CA is filled with unexplained oddities.

Heartbreak Houses

So much love went into these magnificent homes, but each is shrouded with tragedy. Read the sad stories and see photos.