Shop safely online for architecture gifts, collectibles, and holiday giving ideas. Use these links to find clothing, accessories, construction toys, housewares, furnishings, and artwork inspired by the work of great designers. Regardless of the occasion, there is something here to delight fans of famous architects.

Antebellum Gift Books

Elegant southern plantation homes built before America's Civil War are beautifully photographed in these books.

Architect Barbie

The new Barbie "I Can Be an Architect" doll from Mattel has ruffled feathers, but girls seem to love the toy that lets them play act in a traditionally male profession.

Architecture Toys for Grownups

For the architecture enthusiast who's a kid at heart, here's a roundup of kits, models, puzzles, and toys. Build a model of the Eiffel Tower, assemble big bridges from small pieces, and other challenging activities.

Chairs By Famous Architects

The greatest architects of the twentieth century did not stop at buildings. They designed lamps, tables, sofas, beds, and chairs. Here are famous chairs by four famous architects.

Gift Books for Castle Lovers

These handsome books have lavish color photos of the world's great castles, plus castle facts and histories, and other items that will delight anyone who is interested in medieval architecture.

Gift Books for Skyscraper Lovers

Anyone who loves tall buildings will enjoy these gift books. They're packed with photos of favorite skyscrapers, skyscraper statistics, and even skyscraper fold-out pages.

LEGO Architecture Kits

Architecture enthusiasts will love these collectible LEGO construction kits, especially the Architecture Studio. Find detailed models of the Eiffel Tower, Fallingwater, and other famous buildings in the LEGO series.

Photo Books and Gift Books

For lush photographs of the world's great buildings explore these hefty "coffee table" books. You'll find every type and style of building, from ancient castles to modern skyscrapers.

Movies About Architects

Filmmakers are intrigued by the lives of architects. Discover the relationships between the architect and architecture with these twelve films.

Skyscraper Videos

Since the dawn of Hollywood, highrises have played leading roles in the movies. Here are our favorite skyscraper films available on video.

Movies About Architecture

Explore buildings and their builders through movies about architecture and the collaborative process of creating. These documentaries give the viewer a private tour.

Top 10 Architecture Gifts

A roundup of unusual and useful gifts for architects and builders, new homeowners and old house rehabbers, and anyone with a fascination for buildings and design.

Toys for the Budding Builder

These popular and classic toys can help the young engineer and the older hobbyist put together the pieces. Building block sets of wood, metal, and stone are listed with modern plastic sets. And check out the simulation game -- it helps build bridges.

Top Architecture Books for Preschoolers

Picture books with simple stories help children learn about the buildings they see and the homes in which they live. Lay the foundation for understanding and appreciating the world of architecture.

The LEGO Movie

What can you learn about architecture and design from The LEGO Movie? Plenty. This 2014 Warner Bros. movie is not only packed with action, but, with a main character named Vitruvius, it says a lot about the building profession.