Here's your chance to share your thoughts and ideas about architecture and home design. Click on a topic below and begin writing. Your writings will appear on the Architecture site within just a few days.

Writers Guidelines

Find out how to become published on the architecture pages at About.com, and use this form to submit your articles and illustrations.

Words in Architecture

Architects and artists often incorporate writing in their works. Words carved in stone or embossed in brass become an important part of the overall design. But what happens when the words don't fit? Does the designer have the right to change famous quotes?

Favorite Antoni Gaudi Buildings

What's your favorite building by Antoni Gaudi? Tell us what you like about Antoni Gaudi, and read what others have written.

Architect Qualities - What qualities make a great architect

What qualities does it takes to be a great architect? Optimism? Realism? Persistence? Insanity? Tell us what qualities or personality traits you think an architect should have, and read what others have written.

Architecture - What Is Architecture?

What is architecture? Even great architects don't agree. Can we call a simple cabin architecture? How about a war memorial? Tell us how you define the word architecture, and read the definitions posted by others.

Architecture and Construction Words

Find definitions for words related to architecture and construction, ask for help defining architecture vocabulary, or submit your own word definitions. See submissions

Bathroom Design - Tell Us About Unusual Bathrooms

No matter how grownup we try to be, the very mention of bathrooms can make us giggle. But architects and engineers work hard to design bathrooms that are pleasant and practical. Have you ever encountered a really unusual bathroom? Tell us all about it!

Beautiful Architecture - What Makes a Building Beautiful

What makes a building beautiful? Graceful lines? Simple form? Functionality? Tell us what qualities you think an architect should have, and read what others have written.

Castles - Favorite Castles and Fortresses

What's your favorite castle? Tell us what you love about the castle, and read what others have written.

Childhood Creations

Some of the most creative ideas come from the very young. On these pages readers tell about their earliest adventures in architecture. Find out about strange and wonderful things they made when they were children and teenagers. Then tell us about something you made when you were younger.

Cities in the USA - Best American Cities for Architecture

Every city has its architectural wonders, from historic monuments to soaring new skyscrapers. What's the best American city for exploring architecture? Tell us your favorite city, and read what others have written.

Eero Saarinen Design - Favorite Eero Saarinen Design

What's your favorite work by Eero Saarinen? Tell us what you like about Eero Saarinen, and read what others have written.

Frank Gehry Buildings - Favorite Frank Gehry Buildings

What's your favorite building by Frank Gehry? Tell us what you like about Frank Gehry, and read what others have written.

Frank Lloyd Wright - What's Your Favorite FLW Building?

During his long career, Frank Lloyd Wright designed hundreds of buildings, including homes, churches, museums, office buildings, and other structures. Do you have a favorite? Tell us what you like about the architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright.

Gifts: Favorite Architecture Gifts

What's the best gift you've ever given - or received! - related to architecture or home design? Where did you find it? What made the gift special? Share your gift ideas, and see gift suggestions from our readers.

Happy Architecture - Architecture That Makes You Happy

Scientists and psychologists say that our physical surroundings affect the way we think and feel. Certain shapes, colors, and textures bring us joy. Light, sound, and temperature also influence our emotions. Can you remember a building where you felt especially cheerful? Describe a happy building, and read what others have written.

Heroes - Who Is Your Architecture Hero?

Who is your architecture hero? Use this page to tell us about a person, organization, or agency that has provided desperately needed building and design services. Read what others have written.

Home Building and Remodeling Horror Tales

If you've ever designed, built, or purchased a home, then you know that many things can go wrong. Use this simple form to tell us your house horror tales.

House Style: Favorite House Style

Use this simple form to tell us about your favorite house style, and read what others have to say about the house.

Math in Architecture - Is Beauty Mathematical?

We need math to design buildings that are strong and stable. Is math also necessary to design buildings that are beautiful? Can great architecture be expressed in a mathematical formula? Share your ideas, and read what others have written.

Mid-Century Buildings

Are buildings from the mid-twentieth century historic? Should they be restored and preserved? Share your views, and read what others have written.

Modern Buildings - Favorite Buildings from Modern Times

What's your favorite modern? Tell us what makes the building great, and read what others have written.

Museum Buildings - Favorite Museum Buildings

What's your favorite museum building? Tell us what makes the building great, and read what others have written.

Neighborhood Design - What Makes a Great Neighborhood?

Many people say that we need to re-think the way we design our neighborhoods. But how? Tell us what features you look for in an ideal neighborhood, and read what others have written.

Neverland - Best Use for Michael Jackson's Home

Pop star Michael Jackson built a Disney-like fantasyland at his California home, Neverland. Now that Michael Jackson is gone, how should Neverland be used?

Novels - Recommend an Architecture Novel

Architects are heroes in many great novels. What's your favorite fun, fictional book about Architecture? Who wrote the novel? What made that novel so great?

Park51, the Muslim Community Center Near Ground Zero

Many people have criticized plans to build an Islamic community center near Ground Zero, the site of the 2001 terrorist attacks. However, architecture critics have praised the preliminary drawings for the modernist building. What's your view? See what our readers think and add your own commentary. See submissions

Reference Books - Best Reference Books

What's the most important reference book for architecture? Tell us the title and author of the book you find THE most important, and describe why you recommend it.

School Architecture - How Can We Build Better Schools?

Students learn best when they have a safe, comfortable space to interact with their teacher and classmates. What features would you include in the design of your dream school building? Share your vision, and read what others have written.

School Campus - Is Your School Beautiful?

Every school offers its own unique landscape. Tell us about the buildings and grounds at your school, college, or university, and read what others have written.

Shopping Plaza Design - What Style Is Your Shopping Plaza?

How would you describe the shopping plaza in your town? What architectural details do you notice? What styles are the buildings? Describe your town's shopping plaza, and read what others have written.

Silly Buildings - Silly and Impractical Buildings

Architects aren't perfect. Among the great museums, theaters, skyscrapers, and stadiums, there are some doozies. Maybe they're impractical, silly looking, or just plain dumb. What famous buildings are the dumbest?

Skyscraper Movies - What's the Best Skyscraper Movie?

What's the best movie you've ever seen about a skyscraper? What happened? Who starred? What made that film so great?

Skyscrapers - Favorite Skyscrapers and Tall Buildings

What's your favorite skyscraper? Tell us what you like about the skyscraper, and read what others have written.

Skyscrapers - Favorite Skyscrapers and Tall Buildings

What's your favorite skyscraper? Tell us what you like about the skyscraper, and read what others have written.

Software - Architecture Software Reviews

Have you ever used architecture software? Do you have a favorite computer program for designing buildings, houses, floor plans, and landscapes? Have you tried a program that didn't work out? Tell us the good and the bad.

Spooky Buildings - What's the Spookiest Building You've Ever Seen?

Do some buildings give you the creeps? Tell us about the spookiest building you've ever seen, and read what others have written.

Urban Design - Is America Ugly?

New Urbanist thinker James Howard Kunstler says that America's Cities have become unattractive and inhumane. Do you agree?

Weird Buildings - What's the Weirdest Building You've Ever Seen?

Ever seen an upside-down house? A building shaped like a tea cup or a shoe? A place that made you laugh out-loud? What's the weirdest building you've ever encountered? Tell us!

Woman Architect: Favorite Woman Architect

Use this simple form to tell us about your favorite women in architecture, and find out the favorite women architects our readers have picked.

World Trade Center - What's Your Vision for New York?

After many years of planning, New York still has not finalized a plan for reconstructing the World Trade Center buildings that terrorists destroyed. What's your vision? Should New York build new Twin Towers, just like the ones that were destroyed?

World's Greatest Buildings and Structures

Some buildings and structures are so grand, so ingenious, and so beautiful, they take your breath away. Of all the world's buildings and structures, ancient and modern, which one is THE greatest? What makes it great?

Write for the Architecture Pages

You are invited to write for the Architecture pages at About.com. Here's how.