Any kid can become an architect or an engineer -- all it takes is simple household materials and a creative mind. The books listed here are brimming with activities and projects that explore the world of building and design. Whether used for school or play, each page opens the door to learning. For more ways to introduce children to architecture, see our resources list at the end of this article.

For ages 10 and older, Projects and Principles for Beginning Engineers & Architects explains the structural engineering behind buildings, from caves and tents to skyscrapers. Dr. Mario Salvadori's thought-provoking projects simplify the complex and answer a lot of the "why" questions about buildings and construction.

Younger children will learn about basic construction principles as they build their own small houses and structures. This colorful book has simple illustrations, building plans, and playhouse ideas.

You'll need a knife, ruler, and some patience, but the Eiffel Tower wasn't built in a day either. Fold-It-Yourself Buildings and Structures has 20 templates to get the origami architect going. You'll need a knife, ruler, and some patience, but the Eiffel Tower wasn't built in a day either. Fold-It-Yourself Buildings and Structures has 20 templates to get the origami architect going.

4. Origami Architecture: Papercraft Models of the World's Most Famous Buildings The Sydney Opera House? Petronas Towers? The Chrysler Building? All without glue? Canadian designer Sheung Yee Shing has been practicing the art of folding paper for decades, and now he wants you to try.

From the Kaleidoscope Kids series, this fact-filled paperback has photos of famous bridges, an appendix of important bridges around the world, facts about the history and science of bridges, and plenty of projects using simple materials like cereal boxes.

Geared for kids in middle school and high school, this book is packed with ideas for projects and experiments that encompass science, math, geography, engineering, and architecture. As they read and build, kids will learn fascinating concepts of designing highways, bridges, railroads, waterways, and utilities.

For kids and teens who love art, here are step-by-step instructions for drawing the Empire State Building, the Taj Mahal, and other world-famous buildings. Also, find facts about building structure and basic concepts of architectural design.