Find out more about various styles and types of painting, including decorative painting, stenciling, fabric painting, face painting and more. Don't worry if you've never picked up a paintbrush before or feel you're not artistic, you're in the right place to start learning and discover just how creative you can be.

The painting techniques of artists using oils, acrylics, and watercolors on canvas or paper get differentiated from other styles of painting as "Fine Art Painting" or "Easel Painting". But fundamentally it's what you're painting on and the type of paint you're using that differs. There's a lot of cross-over with other styles and what you learn to do in one style of painting can be used in another.

Printmaking in fine art is centuries old, though not all printmaking techniques are that old. A print is an original artwork, not a reproduction of an existing painting. Start your journey to explore the fun that can be had with traditional printmaking techniques here.

In an expressive or painterly style you're not trying to create painting with a smooth, glossy finish like a photograph, but something that celebrates the materials used to create it: paint and brush.

Express your thoughts, dreams, and desires in both pictures and words by creating an art journal.

Transform a piece of plain fabric into an item of beauty, whether it's a wall hanging, floor cloth, throw for a sofa, t-shirt, or a table cloth.

In the consumer age we live in, a handmade card is something very special and personal. There are various approaches or techniques for painting cards, some of which don't take much time at all.

Start your journey on the exciting path of decorative painting with this collection of helpful tips, essential techniques, and step-by-step demonstrations.

Learn how to stencil, cut your own stencils, and more.

Whether you're painting children's faces at a party or someone's whole body, here you'll find information on the techniques involved, materials used, and step-by-step instructions.

Find out more about painting on glass and ceramics, including how to prepare the surface so the paint won't peel off later.