If you want to learn how to paint, have recently begun painting, or wish to refresh your knowledge on some essential technique, this is the place to start!

Having decided you'd like to learn to paint, you need to decide what paint you're going to use. The four main choices are: oils, acrylics, watercolors, and pastel. It's a very personal choice, and if you don't get on with one type of paint, be sure to try another.

I believe in buying the best quality paint you can afford that still lets you feel you can play or experiment with it. You need to feel able to paint over something that's not working, or scrape it off, rather than desperately trying to keep it because of the cost of the paint you've used. Here you'll find my suggestions for suitable art supplies to start painting.

There is certain basic knowledge and fundamental painting techniques that apply regardless of what type of paint you're using.

Paint brushes come in all shapes and sizes, with different types of hairs from soft to stiff. They're an essential and important tool, used not only for getting the paint onto the canvas or paper but also for making expressive marks in the paint.

Once you've got your paints and brushes, you're ready to start painting. But what exactly is it that you're going to be doing. Find out how to approach your first-ever painting.

Learn from the experiences of other artists through these painting tips. Some will save you time, some will save you paint. All will save you learning the hard way.

Find answers to numerous painting problems and questions on all aspects of painting. You'll find solutions for issues associated with a specific type of paint and to things that apply generally when you're learning to paint, such as color mixing.

Photos are an extremely useful tool for a painter. Find out how to make the most of your reference photos, and browse the collections of free artist's reference photos to find inspiration.

Acrylic is a versatile paint that's great when you"re learning to paint (but it's definitely not just for beginners!) as it's easy to use, simple to hide mistakes, and can be painted on almost any surface.

Oil paint is what the Old Masters used and can produce beautiful results. It's a paint choice that requires patience as it dries slowly, but that also means you've lots of time to rework sections.

Many beginners start with watercolor because it's easy to understand how to use it and you just need some paint, a brush, and paper. But easy to use doesn't mean it's quick to master, so allow yourself time to get to grips with the potential of watercolors.

Pastel is a great choice if you like to see immediate results as there"s no waiting for paint to dry. It's a versatile choice that offers a range of techniques and approaches.

While oils, acrylics, watercolors, and pastels are the most common choices, they're by no means the only options available to you. Explore some of the other types of painting and paints.

Every artist has days when they feel uninspired and uncreative, but it's just a bump in the road, it doesn't mean your desire or ability to paint has deserted you. Here's help on getting over a creative block and getting your enthusiasm back.

Once you've finished a painting there are still two possible steps left, varnishing it to protect it, and framing it for display. Whether you do these depends on the type of paint you use and what you painted on.

Making a living from selling your paintings isn't easy, but it can be done. Like any other career, in order to be a successful painter you need to work at it and strive for your goals.