Here you'll find everything you need to learn to paint with acrylics and to develop your skills. For artists of all levels.

Art Supplies List for Acrylic Painting

The choice of art supplies available can be overwhelming, so here's an list of what you need to start painting with acrylics to make life easier.

Basic Colors for Acrylics

These colors make up a good basic palette of acrylic colors and from it you should be able to mix all the colors you'll need.

10 Acrylic Painting Tips for Beginners

Acrylics are extremely versatile, fast-drying paints; here are 10 tips to help you get started painting with acrylics.

Drying Times for Acrylics

A list of acrylic painting drying time, from slowest to fastest drying time.

Acrylic Paint Problems

Sometimes it's not you but the paint that's the problem.

An Introduction to Acrylic Paint Mediums

Acrylic paint mediums range from thin glazing mediums to thick impasto mediums, with all sorts in between. Find out what you can use them for here.

How to Use a Moisture-Retaining Palette for Acrylic Paint

The fact that acrylic paints dry very fast means that you cannot put a lot of paint on an ordinary acrylic paint palette as it'll most likely dry out before you've finished. Various art supply companies have produced moisture-retaining acrylic palettes to solve this problem.

How to Make Your Own a Moisture-Retaining Palette

You can make rather than buy an acrylic paint palette that will keep acrylic paints wet during and between painting sessions. All you need are a plastic container, a sheet of watercolor paper, and some greaseproof paper.

Using Acrylics Without an Artist's Palette

How to paint with acrylics without using an artist's palette, by mixing colors directly on the canvas or paper.

Painting Glazes with Acrylics Step-by-Step Demo

A step-by-step demonstration of painting glazes with acrylics to build up color.

An Acrylic Painter Reveals His Glazing Secrets

Painter Brian Rice explains his success with painting glazes using acrylics.

How to Make Your Own Fluid Acrylics

Save money by making your own version of fluids from 'normal' acrylic paint.

How to Use Acrylic Painting Texture Medium

A step-by-step demo showing how to create visually interesting texture in painting using acrylic texture medium or paste.

How To Varnish an Acrylic Painting

Applying varnish to your painting will protect your hard work from pollution in the atmosphere and dust. Here's how to do it with any hiccups.

Quiz: Should You Use Oils or Acrylics?

Find out whether you're more suited to using oil paints or acrylics with this quick quiz.

Self Portrait: A Step-by-Step Demonstration

An illustrated, step-by-step demonstration of a self-portrait painting I did in acrylics. Each of the six parts have an explanation of what I did in that step, what I felt was working and what not.

Getting Started with Acrylics

If you've decided you'd like to paint with acrylics, this Q&A will answer questions such as which brand of acrylic paint to buy and what brushes.

Scumbling Painting Technique

Learn what scumbling is and how to do this painting technique yourself.

Safe Storage and Transportation of Acrylic Paintings

An indepth look at how to safely package an acrylic painting for transportation, including diagrams of making packing cases, from "Just Paint" Issue 11, published by Golden Artist Colors. (Count how many times it gets mentioned the paint needs to be dry!)

Preparing Supports for Acrylic Painting 

Whether you're wanting to paint on paper, canvas, hardboard, plasterboard, plywood, or something else, you'll find information on preparing it here. Scroll down to the end and you'll find out how to test whether you've got good surface adhesion or not. Very useful when you're going to paint on a surface you've not used before.

Creating Textures with Acrylics

This gallery of various textures created using acrylics explains how to reproduce the effects, whether it's using tissue paper or tea leaves.

Acrylic Mural Painting Techniques

If you're wanting to know how to prepare a particular surface for mural painting, you'll probably find it listed here.

Landscape Demonstration with Acrylics

A five-step demonstration by Charles Harrington of how he painted a landscape with an old building in it. It aims to show how acrylics allow multiple glazes without muddying the underlying layers.