These are all books on the history of painting and famous artists that I recommend reading, individually reviewed so you can know exactly what I thought was good about each.

Painting Today by Tony Godfrey

My review of the book "Painting Today" by Tony Godfrey, a survey of contemporary painting.

Recommended Books on the Works of Great Painters

A selection of recommended books which focus on the works of famous and contemporary painters rather than having lots of text on art history.

Great Art Reads for Painters

Want to improve your general art knowledge? These are all (non-fiction) books I've thoroughly enjoyed reading.

Books on the Artist Giorgio Morandi

Good books on the Italian artist Giorgio Morandi, famous for his still life paintings.

Salon to Biennial: Exhibitions that Made Art History (Volume 1)

A review of the book "Salon to Biennial" by Bruce Altshuler, a look at famous art exhibitions in Europe and America from 1863 to 1959.

Vincent van Gogh: The Letters (6 Volume Boxed Set)

All his letters, all illustrated. It's six volumes of heaven for any Van Gogh fan.

Sennelier: A History in Color

A beautifully illustrated history of the paint company Sennelier, provider of materials to many famous artists.

Painting Exhibition Catalogs

What you get from seeing a painting exhibition and what you get from the catalog of an exhibition is quite different. You needn't have seen the exhibition to get a lot from a catalog. Reading and looking at a well-written exhibition catalog is enjoyable and informative, adds to your painting knowledge, enriches your mind and imagination....

Radical Light Exhibition Catalog

My review of the catalog produced for the Radical Light exhibition, on Italy's Divisionist painters.

Book Review: Like Breath on Glass

A review of the exhibition catalog for the "Like Breath on Glass" painting exhibition.

Art Styles, Schools, and Movements by Amy Dempsey

To learn about art styles, schools, and movements of the 20th century, this is the book. Over 100 are featured and illustrated, while 200 are outlines in the glossary.

The Artist's Studio, edited by Giles Waterfield

My review of the exhibition catalog "The Artist's Studio", edited by exhibition curator Dr Giles Waterfield.

Lists ... from the Smithsonian's Archives of American Art

A review of the book of lists and other artist's enumerations from the Smithsonian's Archives of American Art, by Liza Kirwin.

The Little Red Book of National Gallery, London Moleskine

My review of the Little Red Book of the National Gallery in London, a Moleskine plus guide to the gallery.

Artists and Their Studios

My review of the book "Artists and Their Studios" written by Michael McNay with photographs by Eamonn McCabe.

The Art Atlas

A review of "The Art Atlas" edited by John Onians, which surveys painting, sculpture and other arts across the globe.

How to Read Paintings by Nadeije Laneyrie-Dagen

A review of the book "How to Read Paintings" which aims to explain the elements that make up a masterpiece.

Teaching Art: Academies and Schools from Vasari to Albers by Carl Goldstein

A review of the book "Teaching Art" by Carl Goldstein, which is a survey of art training in Europe and the USA from the Renaissance to the mid-1990s.

The Unknown Monet

A review of the catalog that accompanied the exhibition "The Unknown Monet", which surveys his pastels, drawings, and preparations for painting.

Cezanne and Beyond Exhibition Catalog

My review of the exhibiton catalog for the Cezanne and Beyond Exhibition held at the Philadelphia Museum of Art.

Radical Light Exhibition Catalog

My review of the catalog produced for the Radical Light exhibition, on Italy's Divisionist painters.

Book Review Simon Schama's Power of Art

A review of the book "Simon Schama's Power of Art", which looks at the pivotal artwork in the lives of eight famous artists.

Book Review: Rescuing Da Vinci from Hitler and the Nazis

Among everything written on the World War 2, there's been very little looking at the campaign to loot the best of European art by Hitler and the Nazis from conquered territories. 'Rescuing Da Vinci' by Robert Edsel fills this gap in both world history and art history.

Book Review: Richard Scott

A review of the pocket-sized book showcasing the art of South African artist Richard Scott.

Book Review -- 10 Years 100 Artists: Art in a Democratic South Africa

10 Years 100 Artists: Art in a Democratic South Africa. A review of a book in which 15 writers give their views on South African art after a decade of democracy.

Book Review: Henri Matisse Rooms with a View

My thoughts on a book that looks at Matisse's paintings of interiors and views through windows.

Book Review: Asian Art Now

A review of the book "Asian Art Now", written by Melissa Chu and Benjamin Genocchio, which is an accessible introduction to contemporary art in Asia.

Andrew Wyeth Biography by Richard Meryman

A review of the biography of artist Andrew Wyeth by Richard Meryman.

Matisse Biography by Hilary Spurling

A review of the two-volume biography of the artist Henri Marisse by Hilary Spurling.

How to Read Chinese Paintings by Maxwell Hearn

My review of the introduction to Chinese art, the book "Review How to Read Chinese Paintings" by Maxwell Hearn.

Art Book Review: A Closer Look Series

If you're looking for accessible but informative guides to different aspects of art, I recommend the London National Gallery's Closer Look series.