Capital: Kyiv (Kiev)Population: 44,291,413 (July 2014 estimate)Area: 233,032 square miles (603,550 square kilometers)Coastline: 1,728 miles (2,782 kilometers)Border Countries: Belarus, Hungary, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia and SlovakiaHighest Point: Hora Hoveria at 6,762 feet (2,061 meters)   The Ukraine, formerly known as the Ukrainian National Republic, Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, is a country located in Eastern Europe. Ukraine shares borders with seven countries, including Russia and Slovakia, and has coastlines along the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. Ukraine was once a part of the former Soviet Union and has recently been in the news due to severe social and political unrest as well as violent protests and the ousting of the country’s president Viktor Yanukovych. As of early March 2014 Ukraine had an interim government and a portion of the country was occupied by Russian forces.     Ukraine was a part of Russia until it declared its independence on January 28, 1918. After several years of war and unrest within Ukraine, Russia regained control of the country in 1920 and it became a Soviet republic. In 1922 Ukraine was one of the founders of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). Throughout the 1930s social and political unrest led to the confiscation of grain from Ukrainian farmers by Soviet authorities. This caused famine and further unrest to plague the country. In the 1940s World War II caused additional damage in Ukraine as it was one of the Soviet Union’s most devastated countries. Ukraine made international news in 1986 when its nuclear power plant, Chernobyl, became the site of the world’s worst nuclear accident on April 26. At the time of the accident, 7 million people lived in the affected area that extended well outside of Ukraine. On October 29, 1991 the Ukrainian parliament voted to shut down the site of the reactor and the region was abandoned. On August 24, 1991, Ukraine again declared its independence and in December of that same year, Ukraine, Russia and Belarus joined to form the Commonwealth of Independent States. Its capital was in Minsk, Belarus. During this time economic growth was slow as production declined and unemployment rose. In 1998, Russia began a financial crisis which severely impacted Ukraine as around 40% of its trade at the time was with Russia (infoplease.com). In 1999 Viktor Yuschenko was elected as Ukraine’s prime minister and although he was popular among the Ukrainian population he was dismissed from office in April 2001. In winter 2001 violent protests and unrest began in Ukraine as demonstrators demanded the impeachment of President Leonid Kuchma. In 2004 Kuchma retired and an election between former Prime Minister Viktor Yuschenko and the current Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych took place. Yanukovych won 49.5% of the vote and Yuschenko 46.5%. More protests (referred to as the Orange Revolution) occurred following the election (infoplease.com). Yuschenko won a second election in December 2004 and was sworn in as president in January 2005. Governmental corruption and further social unrest occurred in Ukraine following the 2004 presidential election and in 2006 an energy crisis occurred after Russia quadrupled the price of gas sold to the country. In January 2009 another dispute over gas prices between Russia and Ukraine led to the halting of gas exports to Europe through Ukraine and as a result, Ukraine’s economy was further weakened. In February 2010, Viktor Yanukovych became Ukraine’s president and he began a series of investigations against opposition leaders. In November 2013, Ukraine backed out of a trade agreement with European Union after disagreements with Russia about relations with the EU. As a result, violent protests began in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv. Demonstrators claimed that by not working with the EU, Ukraine’s future economic and democratic development was in jeopardy. In December 2013 the protestors demanded Yanukovych’s resignation. Around this same time, Yanukovych reached a deal with Russia’s President, Vladimir Putin, in which Russia agreed to loan Ukraine $15 billion and cut oil prices (infoplease.com). According to Ukraine’s government, the deal was meant to provide economic stability. Despite Ukraine’s agreement with Russia the protests continued into January 2014 and became increasingly more violent and spread to cities outside of Kyiv. As a result, Russia suspended its financial aid package and on February 21, 2014 Yanukovych agreed to accept a weakening presidency and hold new elections by the end of the year. Russia refused the deal and the opposition escalated their protests causing Yanukovych to flee Kyiv on February 22, 2014. An interim government was then put into place and Oleksandr Turchynov became acting president. In addition to the demonstrations in Kyiv, further demonstrations against the events in Ukraine began to take place in Crimea, a pro-Russian part of eastern Ukraine. During these protests, Russian extremists took over several government buildings in Simferopol, Crimea’s capital city, and raised the Russian flag (infoplease.com). On March 1, 2014, Putin dispatched troops to Crimea, stating that Russia needed to protect the ethnic Russians in the region from extremists and anti-government protestors in Kyiv. By March 3rd, Russia was in control of Crimea, which caused international outrage.  As of this writing, Ukraine still has an interim government and Crimea is still occupied by Russian forces. Many outside countries and international organizations have pledged their support for Ukraine and the Crimean Parliament scheduled a referendum for March 16, 2014 to determine if Crimea shall secede from Ukraine and be annexed by Russia.             Ukraine’s climate is considered temperate continental throughout most of the country and Mediterranean along the southern part of Crimea. Precipitation is highest in the west and north and winters are cool along the Black Sea and cold inland. Summers are warm throughout most of Ukraine but can be very hot in the south. Ukraine’s capital city, Kyiv, has an average low of 21.6F (-5.8C) in January and an average high of 78.1F (25.6C) in July.  