10 Largest Lakes in the U.S. by Surface AreaA listing of the 10 largest lakes in the United States measured by surface area. 20 Biggest CitiesThe 20 biggest cities in the United States, based of population estimates, from your About.com Guide to Geography. 2006 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2006. 2007 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2007. 2008 Hurricane Names - Official Hurricane Names ListA list of the official hurricane names for 2008. 2009 Hurricane Names - Hurricane Names for 2009A list of the official hurricane names for 2009. 2012 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2010.  The rotating list of names of hurricanes changes each year; this is the 2010 list of hurricane names from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. 2013 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2013.  The rotating list of names of hurricanes changes each year; this is the 2013 list of hurricane names from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. 2005 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2005. 2014 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2014.  The rotating list of names of hurricanes changes each year; this is the 2014 list of hurricane names from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. 2015 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2015.  The rotating list of names of hurricanes changes each year; this is the 2015 list of hurricane names from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. 2016 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2016.  The rotating list of names of hurricanes changes each year; this is the 2016 list of hurricane names from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Axis of Evil, Rogue States, Outposts of Tyranny, and Axis of TerrorA listing of the countries that are designated by the United States government as being part of the Axis of Evil, Rogue States, Outposts of Tyranny, and Axis of Terror. Basic Earth FactsA fascinating collection of basic facts about the planet earth. Busiest AirportsA comprehensive listing of the world's busiest airports, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Biggest CountriesA listing of the biggest countries in area in the world, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Busiest Airports in the WorldA listing of the busiest airports in the world, based on passenger arrivals and departures.  This list of the world's busiest airports is based on the most recent 2010 data. Canadian AbbreviationsA listing of the tow-letter postal code abbreviations for the provinces and territories of Canada. Capitals of Every CountryA comprehensive listing of every country on earth along with its capital city. Caribbean Countries by AreaRefer to this list to learn which countries make up the Caribbean and their area. Countries of Central America and the Caribbean by AreaRefer to this list to see the 20 countries of Central America and the Caribbean ranked in order of size. Communist CountriesDuring the reign of the Soviet Union, there were communist countries throughout Eastern Europe, Asia, and Africa.  Communist countries in the twentieth century included Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Benin, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Congo, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Ethiopia, Mongolia, Mozambique, Poland, Romania, Somalia, Sout… Countries of the Mediterranean RegionRefer to this list to learn about the 21 countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea. Countries of the Pacific RimThe a list of the countries that surround the Pacific Ocean Countries Participating in the 2006 Winter Olympic Games in T…A listing of the countries participating in the XX Olympic Winter Games in Torino (Turin), Italy from February 10-26, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Countries That Lie on the Prime MeridianA listing of the countries that lie on the Prime Meridian, also known as zero degress longitude, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Countries That the Prime Meridian Passes ThroughA list of the seven countries that lie on zero degrees longitude, also known as the Prime Meridian. Countries With Multiple Capital CitiesLearn about the countries of the world that have more than one capital city or multiple capital cities. Countries Without Diplomatic Relations with the United StatesA listing of the countries and nations that do not have diplomatic relations with the United States of America. Deadly United States DisastersRefer to this list to learn about the ten deadliest natural disasters in the United States. English Speaking CountriesA listing of countries with English as an official language or where English is predominantly spoken. Entry Dates of U.S. StatesRead this article to learn when the states of the United States joined the Union and learn which were the first 13 to join. Learn history about the United States from Geography at About.com. Equator CountriesA listing of the countries that lie on the equator or countries that the equator passes through. Hurricane Categories - Information About Hurricane CategoriesA listing of the categories from the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, from your About.com expert Guide for Geography. Essential Places for Every GeographerHave you ever longed for a checklist of places every good geographer should visit and experiences every good geographer should have? Well, I've compiled such a list! Euro Countries - Countries Using the EuroA listing of the countries that utilize the euro as their official currency.  This euro country list is from your About.om Guide to Geography. European Countries Smaller Than Rhode IslandA listing of the six countries in Europe smaller than Rhode Island. European Union CountriesA listing of the countries that are members of the European Union, including the newest countries in the European Union, also known as the EU. G7 and G8A listing of the countries that compose the powerful "G7" and "G8" groups of countries that control much of the world economy. Geographic Centers of the U.S. and North AmericaThe geographic and population centers for the United States. Geography of United States High PointsGeography of U.S. High Points: Read this article to learn about the highest points in each of the 50 U.S. states from Geography at About.com. 2011 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2011.  The rotating list of names of hurricanes changes each year; this is the 2011 list of hurricane names from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Geography of United States Low PointsU.S. Low Points: See this list to learn where the lowest points are in all 50 states in the United States from Geography at About.com. Geography of the World's Largest Oil SpillsRead this article to learn about the largest oil spills around the world throughout the 20th and 21st centuries. Learn about their location, size and when they occurred from Geography at About.com. Highest Mountains - The Highest Mountains on Each ContinentA list of the higest mountains in the world, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Highest Population DensitiesA listing of the 10 most densely populated countries in the world, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. How Many Share Your BirthdayDiscover how many people share your birthday around the world, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Olympic Game Cities - Host Cities for the Olympic GamesA complete listing of all Olympic Game cities from the beginning of the modern Olympics in 1896 through 2014.  Includes all Summer Olympic Games and Winter Olympic Games host cities. Independence Day for Every CountryA complete listing of every country in the world and its independence day, ranked from oldest to youngest.  Discover which countries are the oldest countries and which are the youngest or newest countries in the world.  From your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Largest Continent - The World's Largest ContinentInformation about the world's largest continent in area and the largest continent in population, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Largest Capital Cities of the United StatesLarge U.S. Capitals: Refer to this list to learn which capital cities in the United States are the largest. Learn information about the top ten largest capital cities in the U.S. Largest Counties by PopulationA listing of the 38 largest counties in the United States with populations of one million or more, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Largest Islands - A List of the World's Largest IslandsA listing of the largest islands in the world, a list of the the largest islands in area as well as a list of the largest islands by population. Largest Lakes in the World - The Largest Lakes in Area, Volume, and D…A listing of the deepest lakes, largest lakes in area, and largest lakes in volume around the world, from your expert Guide to Geography from About.com Largest Metropolitan AreasA listing of the 42 largest Combined Statistical Areas (formerly Metropolitan Statistical Areas), with total population, in the United States, from your About.com expery Guide to Geography. List of Arab StatesList of Arab Countries: Refer to this list to learn which countries make up the Arab world. Longest Coastlines in the WorldRefer to this list to learn which of the world's country's have the longest coastlines. Longest Mountain Ranges in EuropeA listing of the longest mountain ranges in Europe, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Longest Rivers in the World - A Listing of the World's Longest RiversA listing of the longest rivers in the world, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Lowest Population DensitiesA lisiting of the thirteen countries with the lowest population densities in the world, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Members of the European UnionAn up-to-date listing of the 25 members of the European Union. Missing CountriesLearn what happened to countries like Tibet, Rhodesia, Siam, and others, from your About.com Guide.  A listing of countries that no longer exist. Most Popular Languages - World's Most Popular LanguagesA listing of the ten most popular world languages and the number of speakers for each language. Most Popular World ReligionsA list of the most popular religions in the world, along with the number of adherents. Most Populous CountriesA listing of the countries with a population greater than 50 million. Most Populous Countries in 2050A listing of the twenty most populous countries on the earth in the year 2050, based on population projections for 2050 from the United Nations. Most Populous Countries in 2100A listing of the twenty most populous countries in the year 2100, based on United Nations population projections for 2100. New Seven Wonders of the WorldThe Internet's most famous expert geographer presents a new modern listing of the Seven Wonders of the World.  From the About.com Guide to Geography, Matt Rosenberg. Non-Members of the United NationsFind out which countries are non-members of the United Nations. Number of McDonald's Restaurants WorldwideDiscover the answer to the question of how many McDonald's restaurants exist worldwide, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Ocean CurrentsA listing of the seventeen major surface ocean currents. Official Listing of Countries by World RegionAn official listing of countries arranged by eight world regions, as selected and determined by Matt Rosenberg, the About.com Guide to Geography.  Find out which countries fit into which world regions. Oldest Cities in the United StatesOldest Cities in the United States: Refer to this list to learn about the 15 oldest cities in the United States. OECD Member CountriesA complete listing of the OECD member countries, those independent countries that are members of the international Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Organization of American States Member CountriesA listing of the member countries of the Organization of American States or OAS. State AbbreviationsThe two letter postal code state abbreviations for every state and territory in the United States. Olympic Country CodesEach country has its own three-letter abbreviation or code that is used during the Olympic Games to represent that country. This is a list of the 2025 countries that are recognized by the IOC (International Olympic Committee) as National Olympic Committees. Seven Wonders of the World - Complete List of the 7 Wonders State Capitals of the Fifty States - U.S. State CapitalsThe state capitals of the fifty states of the United States of America, from your About.com Guide to Geography. State Nicknames - Nicknames of U.S. StatesA comprehensive list of the state nicknames for each of the fifty United States. State PopulationA complete listing of the populations of every state in the United States, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Tallest Building in the World - The World's Tallest BuildingsInformation about the tallest building in the world along with information about the world's tallest buildings. Tallest Mountains in the World - A Listing of the World's Tal…A complete listing, with elevation, of the tallest mountains in the world. Ten Highest Lakes in the WorldA listing of the world's ten highest lakes.  Find out which lakes are at the highest elevations on earth. The Average CountryFind out what the size and population of the average country would be, if the 194 countries of the world were averaged out among the land and people of the planet. The Most Common Place Name in AmericaA discussion of whether there is a place name found in all fifty states and the most common place names in general, from your About.com Guide to Geography. The Smallest Capital Cities in the United StatesRefer to this list to learn which of the capital cities in the United States are the smallest in population. The World's 10 Largest Coral ReefsA listing of the world's 10 largest coral reefs, including their name, size, and location in the world's ocean. High World Cities and Permanent SettlementsRefer to this list to learn where the ten highest cities in the world are located. Learn their names, locations and elevations. The World's Northernmost SettlementsRefer to this list to learn about the world's northernmost cities and towns in the world. The World's Southernmost SettlementsThe World's Southernmost Settlements: Refer to this list to learn about the world's southernmost settlements with over 2,000 people. Top 10 Travel DestinationsThe most popular travel destinations in the world, based on the number of tourists each year, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. The World's Smallest CountriesA listing of the seventeen smallest countries in the world. All seventeen of these countries are extremely small and are less than 200 square miles in area. Top Recipients of U.S. Foreign AidA listing of the top recipients of U.S. Foreign Aid, from your About.com Guide to Geography. Top Ten CountriesA listing of the world's largest countries by population now and in 2050. Top Tourist DestinationsThe world's twenty most popular tourist destinations. U.S. States by AreaA listing of the fifty United States by area.  See this list for the U.S. states ranked by area and size. U.S. World Trade Partners - Top World Trade PartnersA complete listing of the top fifteen world trade partners of the United States. Warsaw Pact CountriesA listing of the countries that were members of the Warsaw Pact. Which Continent?Discover upon which continent various important points on the earth's surface are located, whether Europe or Asia or Africa or North America or South America or Australia or even Antarctica.  From your About.com expert Guide to Geography. World PopulationDiscover the current world population and historic world population totals and growth since the year zero. World's Highest AIDS RatesA listing of the countries where the rate of AIDS among the population is the highest, from your About.com Guide to Geography.