
 

The discipline of geography is among the most ancient of all sciences, possibly even the oldest because it seeks to answer some of man’s most primitive questions. Geography was recognized anciently as a scholarly subject, and can be traced back to Eratosthenes, a Greek scholar who lived around 276-196 B.C.E. and who is often called, “the father of geography.” Eratosthenes was able to estimate the circumference of the earth with relative accuracy, using the angles of shadows, the distance between two cities, and a mathematical formula. 
 
  

Without Eratosthenes, Ptolemy, von Humboldt, and many other important geographers, important and essential discoveries, world exploration and expansion, and advancing technologies would not have taken place. Through their use of mathematics, observation, exploration, and research, mankind has been able to experience progress and see the world, in ways unimaginable to early man. 
  

Today we use and teach geography much like we have for centuries. We often use simple maps, compasses and globes, and learn about the physical and cultural geography of different regions of the world. But today we also use and teach geography in very different ways as well. We are a world that is increasingly digital and computerized. Geography is not unlike other sciences that have broken into that realm to advance our understanding of the world. We not only possess digital maps and compasses, but GIS and remote sensing allows for understanding of the earth, the atmosphere, its regions, its different elements and processes, and how it can all relate to humans.  

Jerome E. Dobson, president of the American Geographical Society writes (in his article Through the Macroscope: Geography's View of the World) that these modern geographic tools “constitute a macroscope that allows scientists, practitioners, and the public alike to view the earth as never before.” Dobson argues that geographic tools allow for scientific advancement, and therefore geography deserves a place among the fundamental sciences, but more importantly, it deserves more of a role in education. Recognizing geography as a valuable science and studying and utilizing the progressive geographical tools will allow for many more scientific discoveries in our world.  