The Vinland MapLearn about the history and authenticity of the Vinland Map, thought to be from the 1400s or a forgery.  The debate continues regarding the Vinland Map, which proves Scandinavian exploration of North America before Columbus.  From the About.com Geography GuideSite. U.S. Boundary HistoryTrack the growth of the United States across North America through the variety of treaties, purchases, wars, and Acts of Congress that made the U.S.A. what it is today. Ancient T-O MapsThis map expressed the image of the world for many people during the Middle Ages. Concentration and Death Camp MapAbout.com's 20th Century History site provides this useful map of concentration and death camps during World War II. 1891 Grain Dealers and Shippers GazetteerScanned maps from an atlas of railroad maps from the late ninteenth century. Detailed and fascinating. 1895 U.S. AtlasHuge scanned maps of each state from a turn-of-the-century atlas.  Also includes some data on population and whether each town had a post office, express office, or railroad at the time. An excellent resource!  American Revolution and Its EraThis Library of Congress collection contains dozens of scanned online maps from the second half of the eighteenth century.  This collection is "Maps and Charts of North America and the West Indies, 1750-1789." Broer Map LibraryA growing collection of historic maps from around the world, scanned and placed online.  Map detail can be seen through a nice user-friendly interface that allows zooming and panning. Civil War MapsA large collection of online maps from the Civil War era, from the Library of Congress.  The best way to search is to browse by "Geographic Location." David Rumsey Historical Map CollectionThis is truly an amazing collection of historic maps of the Americas. The collection of several thousand images can easily be searched, browsed, and each map can be viewed at a variety of zoomed levels. This is the place to start for historic map research online. Gardiner's Atlas of English HistoryDozens of fantastic scanned maps from an 1892 historic atlas that provides maps of the United Kingdom, Europe, and British colonies around the world. Historic CitiesHistoric maps, images, information, and documents about world cities. Historic USGS Maps of New EnglandA fantastic collection of late 19th and early 20th century topographic maps of New Hampshire, Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont.  Historical Atlas of the Twentieth CenturyMatthew White's fantastic atlas covering a plethora of aspects of the 20th century; maps of politics, war, population, and more. New York State Historical MapsA nice collection of two dozen maps of New York and surrounding areas from the 16th through 19th centuries. Panoramic Maps Collection 1847-1929Late 19th and early 20th century "bird's-eye views" of cities in the United States from the Library of Congress American Memory Project. New historical maps continue to be added to the collection. The easiest way to search is by "Geographic Location." Perry-Castaneda Library Map Collection Historical MapsA wonderful collection of worldwide historical maps from the PCL Map Collection of the General Libraries of The University of Texas at Austin. Images are scanned in and are often very large, but very impressive, files.  Not only is this site comprehensive worldwide, it also contains a huge collection of historic U.S. maps. Railroad Maps Collection 1828-1900Ninteenth century maps across the country from the Library of Congress American Memory Project. Many maps are quite detailed and allow zooming for close inspection of lines and towns.  Rare Maps CollectionScanned maps of the New World, Colonial America, and the U.S. Civil War are available at this site, courtesy of the University of Georgia Libraries. These maps are quite amazing. UCB Digital Map CollectionU.C. Berkeley's Map Library has scanned in hundreds of excellent historical maps from their collection. Many are of California but there are many from around the world as well. Select one of the three buttons to browse and then modify your search using the search box at the bottom of the listing. Yale Maps OnlineThe Yale Map Library has a nice collection of online historic maps from around the world. All six categories lead to collections of maps (or globes).