

Although the Pleistocene Epoch experienced many cycles of glacials and interglacials (the warmer periods between the colder glacial climates), the last glacial period is the most heavily studied and best known portion of the world's current ice age, especially with regard to North America and northern Europe. 
  

The Southern Hemisphere experienced the glaciation with the Patagonian Ice Sheet that covered Chile and much of Argentina and Africa and portions of the Middle East and Southeast Asia experienced significant mountain glaciation.  

Because the ice sheets and mountain glaciers covered so much of the world, local names have been given to the various glaciations around world. The Pinedale or Fraser in the North American Rocky Mountains, the Greenland, the Devensian in the British Isles, the Weichsel in Northern Europe and Scandinavia, and the Antarctic glaciations are some of the names given to such areas. The Wisconsin in North America is one of the more famous and well-studied, as is the Wurm glaciation of the European Alps. 
  

The warmer portions of the globe also experienced a change in climate due to glaciation in that most of them became cooler but drier. For example rainforest  cover in West Africa was reduced and replaced by tropical grasslands because of a lack of rain.  

At the same time, most of the world's deserts  expanded as they became drier. The American Southwest, Afghanistan, and Iran are exceptions to this rule however as they became wetter once a shift in their air flow patterns took place.  

Finally, as the last glacial period progressed leading up to the LGM, sea levels worldwide dropped as water became stored in the ice sheets covering the world's continents. Sea levels went down about 164 feet (50 meters) in 1,000 years. These levels then stayed relatively constant until the ice sheets began to melt toward the end of the glacial period. 
 

Some mammals also went extinct around the world during this time but it is clear that they did live during the last glacial period. Mammoths, mastodons, long-horned bisons, saber toothed cats, and giant ground sloths are among these.  

Human history also began in the Pleistocene and we were heavily impacted by the last glaciation. Most importantly, the drop in sea level aided in our movement from Asia into North America as the landmass connecting the two areas in the Alaska's Bering Straight (Beringia) surfaced to act as a bridge between the areas. 
  

Various landforms also exist around the world because of the enormous power of moving glaciers and ice sheets. In Canada's Manitoba for instance, numerous small lakes dot the landscape. These were formed as the moving ice sheet gouged out the land beneath it. Over time, the depressions formed filled with water creating "kettle lakes." 

Finally, the many glaciers still present around the world today are some of the most famous remnants of the last glaciation. Most ice today is located in Antarctica and Greenland but some is also found in Canada, Alaska, California, Asia, and New Zealand. Most impressively though are the glaciers still found in the equatorial regions like South America's Andes Mountains and Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa.  

Most of the world's glaciers are famous today however for their significant retreats in recent years. Such a retreat represents a new shift in the earth's climate- something that has happened time and time again over the earth's 4.6 billion year history and will no doubt continue to do in the future.  

