An Overview of ClimateLearn about climate and how it is determined and how climate is different from weather.  An overview of climate and climate classification from the About.com expert Geography GuideSite. ITCZThe ITCZ or Intertropical Convergence Zone s a region on earth that experiences increased precipitation due to convectional lifting.  Learn about the ITCZ from the About.com expert Geography GuideSite. 2010 Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names for 2010.  The rotating list of names of hurricanes changes each year; this is the 2010 list of hurricane names from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. A Overview of Global WarmingA comprehensive overview of global warming - its causes, its effects, its future, and what we can do about it, from About.com's expert Geography site. Advantages and Disadvantages of Global WarmingYour About.com expert Guide to Geography provides a listing of the significant advantages and disadvantages of global warming. Coldest Capital CitiesFind out which capital city is the coldest in the world and which make the top of the list of the cold capitals of the earth. Deadliest World Hurricanes - The Deadliest Hurricanes Around the WorldA listing of the deadliest hurricanes in the world since the year 1900, a top ten list of the deadliest world hurricanes and cyclones.  From your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Dew Point - An Overview of Dew PointAn overview of dew point, which represents the temperature at which the air is completely saturated with water vapor.  This overview of dew point is from your About.com Guide to Geography. Drought: Its Causes, Stages, and ProblemsA comprehensive overview of drought.  Provides the definition of drought, the causes of drought, economic effects of drought, and how drought can be controlled. El Nino - El Nino and La Nina OverviewAn understandable overview of El Nino and La Nina and its affects on the world climate from your expert About.com Guide to Geography. Evapotranspiration - An Overview of EvapotranspirationAn overview of evapotranspiration, which is a combination of evaporation and transpiration.  Learn about the climate concept of evapotranspiration and potential evapotranspiration from your About.com Geography site. Fujita Scale - The Fujita Scale for Tornado DamageTed Fujita developed a scale, called the Fujita Scale, to measure tornado damage that helps us to classify nature's most violent storms.  Learn about the Fujita scale from your About.com Guide to Geography. High and Low Air Pressure - An Overview of Air PressureAn overview of high pressure and low pressure and how air pressure impacts the weather and climate of an area.  Learn all about high and low pressure from this About.com Geography article. Hurricane NamesA list of the official hurricane names. HurricaneAn overview of the terrible storms known as hurricanes. Find out how they are born and die. Intertropical Convergence Zone - ITCZDiscover the fascinating Intertropical Convergence Zone or ITCZ, a zone of trade wind convergence and excessive precipitation. Inversion Layers - Temperature Inversion LayersLearn about temperature inversion layers and their impact on local climates and smog, from the About.com expert geography site. Koppen Climate ClassificationAn overview of the Koppen system of climate classification, including maps of the the classifications. Layers of the AtmosphereLearn about the layers of the atmosphere - the Troposphere, Stratosphere, Mesosphere, Thermosphere, and Exosphere - from your About.com Guide to Geography. MonsoonLearn all about the monsoon rains and weather of the Indian subcontinent and Southern Asia. Permafrost - An Overview of PermafrostA thorough exploration of permafrost, which covers one-fifth of the earth's land, from the About.com Geography site. Pluvial Lakes - An Overview of Pluvial LakesAn overview of pluvial lakes, which were formed when the earth's climate was much wetter than today's climate.  An article about pluvial lakes from About.com's Geography site. Precipitation - Measuring PrecipitationAverage annual precipitation is a vital piece of climatic data - one that is recorded through a variety of methods. Precipitation (which is most commonly rainfall but also includes snow, hail, sleet, and other forms of water falling to the ground) is measured in units over a given time period. Rain Shadowrain shadow orographic mountains ranges precipitation snow desert dry adiabatic cooling warming heat cold climate sierra rockies nevada california geography Rainforests - An Overview of the World's RainforestsThe world's rainforests are incredibly diverse in terms of plant and animal life and provide much of the world's oxygen.  Learn all about rainforests from this article from the About.com expert Geography site. Retired Hurricane NamesA list of hurricane names that have been retired. Temperate, Torrid, and Frigid ZonesIn one of the first attempts at climate classification, the ancient Greek scholar Aristotle hypothesized that the earth was divided into three types of climatic zones - the temperate, torrid, and frigid zones. The Jet Stream - An Overview of The Jet StreamA comprehensive overview of the jet stream and its impact on global climate and the world's weather, from the About.com expert Geography site. The Last Glaciation - An Overview of Global GlaciationLearn about the earth's most recent glaciation, which ended about 12,500 years ago.  Find out which areas were covered by ice in the last glaciation. Trade Winds - An Overview of Trade WindsThe names for the regions of the earth known as the trade winds, horse latitudes, and the doldrums all hark back to the age of sailing.  Learn about these regions from your About.com Guide to Geography. Winds and the Pressure Gradient Force - An Overview of WindAn overview of wind and the pressure gradient that causes air to move from one place to another, causing wind.