Gifted 101 -- Getting to Know and Understand Gifted Children

People tell you that your child is smart. You think so too. But how smart? Is your child gifted or just bright? Is there a difference? Find out as you learn how the experts define giftedness. Explore the characteristics of gifted children and learn how to use them to determine if your child is gifted. 



Myths about gifted children abound. Learn what these myths are and how they may be affecting the way your gifted child is treated.

Early Reading Is a Sign of Giftedness

Reading is an essential skill for someone to master to be successful in school and in life. It's no wonder, therefore, that so many parents work hard to ensure that their children learn to read as soon as possible. We see more and more young children who seem to be able to read, so many in fact, that many people are beginning to say that early...

Do All Parents Want Gifted Children

Do all parents really want their children to be gifted? The answer to that question is an unequivocal "yes"... and "no." All parents certainly want their children to do well in school and have successful lives. Who hopes for a child who fails in school and in life? But is wanting a child who does well in school and in life the same as wanting a gifted child? No, it is not.

Different Perspectives on the Term "Gifted"

People use the term gifted all the time, but are they all talking about the same thing? No one definition of gifted exists, so it's quite likely that they aren't! Learn where this term came from and how the history of its use led to the various views of gifted that we have today.

How Do Children Learn to Read?

Unlike learning language, though, learning to read is not natural. It has to be taught. And as complex as language is, reading is even more complex. So how exactly do children learn to read?

The Role of Memory in Reading

Since most children can learn to read, we may not always realized just how difficult a process it is. While learning a language is natural, learning to read isn't. It is a skill that must be learned and it can't be learned until the brain is ready.

Gifted Kids' Bill of Rights

Would it be great if people acknowledged that gifted children have some rights? What do you think those rights would be?

How Do Children Learn Language?

Language learning is natural. Babies are born with the ability to learn it and that learning begins at birth. All children, no matter what language their parents speak, learn language much the same way. This learning takes place in three basic stages.

Creating Gifted Children - Nature or Nurture?

Many people believe that it is possible to create a gifted child by providing the right instruction and nurturing. Is it really possible to create a gifted child? Or are gifted children simply born that way?

Reflections of Giftedness in Harry Potter

Everyone loves Harry Potter and his friends, but how many people recognize the gifted behaviors, problems, and concerns of gifted children that are reflected in the Harry Potter stories?

Gifted Children and Language Development

One characteristic of gifted children is advanced language ability, which means these children reach developmental milestones relating to language earlier than developmental charts would indicate. This means that gifted children tend to talk earlier, have larger vocabularies, and use longer sentences than non-gifted children.

High Achievers, Gifted Learners, and Creative Thinkers

The number one question asked by parents of advanced children is whether their child is gifted or "just" bright. They also may question whether their child is gifted if he or she is not excelling in school. How can we understand the difference between high achievers and gifted children? Or are they the same?

Chart Comparing High Achievers, Gifted Learners, or Creative Thinkers

The number one question asked by parents of advanced children is whether their child is gifted or "just" bright. They also may question whether their child is gifted if he or she is not excelling in school. Here is a chart that can help parents understand the differences, not only between high achievers and gifted children, and also between gifted and creative learners.

No, All Children Are Not Gifted

When will we stop hearing that "All children are gifted?" They aren't. But they are all okay!

A Response to the "All Children are Gifted" Comment

Why do so many people believe that "all children are gifted"? Michael Clay Thompson provides some reasons and eloquently responds to the comment.

Developmental Milestones - Three Months to Five Years

The advanced development of gifted children is easier for parents and others to understand if they are familiar with typical childhood development.

Polls for Parents of Gifted Children

How do your views and opinions match up with those of other parents of gifted children? Find out by taking one or more of the polls. These polls range from questions about ADHD to supersensitivities to wish lists for teachers.

What the Experts Tell Us about Gifted Students

This article is an excellent overview of what experts have to say on just about everything concerning gifted children: acceleration, adult achievement, early college, early years, educational advocacy, social and emotional, family, IQ and testing, and parenting.

Myths and Truths About Gifted Kids

The Family Education Web site explains the myths and truths about gifted children identified by The Council for Exceptional Children.

Giftedness as a Social Construct

Is giftedness just something we made up or does it really exist?