I am. No doubt about it. When I take those tests that measure introversion and extroversion,  my score invariably ends up as far in the introversion range as it possibly can.  But it's always good to see that I'm not alone and that other people understand us introverts. The other day I ran across a great article about introverts: 23 Signs You're Secretly An Introvert. I read each one of those signs and thought "YES!"  Number 21, for example, is that we've been told to come out of our shell. My nickname in high school was turtle. You can figure out why.  I was rather surprised to learn that introverts tend to have low blood pressure.  Yup.  That one applies to me, too. Do you have a child that you think is shy? It could be that your child is actually an introvert. There is a difference between being shy and being an introvert. Introverts may also be shy, but they aren't necessarily shy. Introverts just have different needs than extroverts have. If you have an introvert, you might want some tips on how to raise an introvert.  It's easy! Just understand introversion and let your child be who he is.

World Oceans Day is a while away - June 8th. But it's not too early to think about it since there is a photo contest!A  Yes, that's right. A photo contest. If your child loves the oceans and photography, this is a great opportunity. Contestants can enter photos into one of five categories, the last one being open to kidsA  under the age of 16 (as of April 1, 2014). The categories are as follows: Youth: open category, any image of the ocean - below or above the surface Adults (and kids over 16) can enter a photo in the other 4 categories. For more information, check out the World Oceans Day Photo Contest page. If your child loves the ocean, but isn't ready or able to take photos for this competition, give her some books to read about the ocean and all the forms of life within it. Many of these books contain beautiful photographs.

No, I don't really mean gifted kids are destructive. Maybe a better word to use would be deconstructive.  If you have one of these gifted kids, you know what I'm talking about. Deconstructive gifted kids are the kids who have to take everything apart. They have an intense curiosity about how things work and to find out, they take things apart. How does that CD player work? Maybe if I take all those screws out, I'll figure it out. It doesn't always matter what the object is - as long as it has parts and does something, it's fair game for being taken apart.  Parents often try to discourage this behavior. It does, after all, start getting expensive to replace all those deconstructed items. But I say, encourage it! You never know what your child will learn or where that curiosity will take him. There are some guidelines, however, since you want your child to be safe. Other than that, let the fun begin!

"More than half the students in the Indian Hill school district are considered gifted - the highest percent in our region and fourth highest in the state." How can more than half the students in one district be gifted? And it's not even the highest percentage in the state. In fairness to Ms. Brown, the article isn't about the high number of gifted kids; it's about the number of gifted children who receive services, and in this case, it's five percent. Considering that the gifted population is somewhere between three and five percent, five percent being served isn't so bad. Of course, the question is whether that five percent consists of the kids who are truly gifted. But that's my question, not Ms. Brown's. Ms. Brown rightly points out the problems encountered when getting gifted children the academic services they need, including problems with identification.  Her article, " If you are familiar with Garrison Keillor's Lake Wobegone, you'll know that it is town "where all the women are strong, all the men are good looking, and all the children are above average."  And if you are at all familiar with statistics, you'll know that is impossible. It is impossible for all children to be above average - just as it is impossible for all children to be gifted . It's not even possible for half of the children to be above average, let alone gifted. If you understand that as I do, then you will be as puzzled as I was when I read this opening line of an article by Jessica Brown:How can more than half the students in one district be gifted? And it's not even the highest percentage in the state. In fairness to Ms. Brown, the article isn't about the high number of gifted kids; it's about the number of gifted children who receive services, and in this case, it's five percent. Considering that the gifted population is somewhere between three and five percent, five percent being served isn't so bad. Of course, the question is whether that five percent consists of the kids who are truly gifted. But that's my question, not Ms. Brown's. Ms. Brown rightly points out the problems encountered when getting gifted children the academic services they need, including problems with identification.  Her article, " Gifted kids may not be well-served ," is actually quite good, so I'm not complaining about it.  The first line just made me think. While some towns may have a greater percentage of gifted kids than other towns, none will have fifty percent of its children be gifted. What is important is that all children get the academic services they need. That is as true no matter how many gifted children there are in a community. Gifted kids may not be well-served