Books Gifted Children are Sure to Love

Some books capture the imagination and interest of gifted children more than other books do. Here are some of those books.

Books About Oceans for Kids

Only 29% of the Earth's surface is land. The rest - 71% - is covered by water. Many consider the oceans to be the last frontier. These books will help kids learn all about our oceans and what is in them.

Children's Books for Earth Day

The first Earth Day took place on April 22, 1970. Since then, much attention has been paid to the environment and ecology of the planet. We have learned better ways to take care of the Earth and its resources. It's never too early to help your child understand the Earth and how to take care of it and these books will definitely help with that. Your child is sure to love one or more of these books.

Science Fiction Books for Young Children

It's never too early to introduce your child to science fiction. But why should you introduce your child to science fiction at all? Because it is fires up the imagination and encourages us to think of the possible, no matter how possible - or impossible - it may seem. Remember, travel in space was once possible only in science fiction stories, but now it is actually possible for man to land on the moon. These books are perfect science fiction reading for young kids.

Best Fiction Books for Gifted Kids

Fiction can encourage children to think about values and life issues, stimulate their imagination, challenge their problem-solving skills, help them work through difficult circumstances, and even speak to their souls. What you will find here are lists of fiction books of all kinds.

Children's Books About Butterlies

Many children (and adults) find butterflies to be both beautiful and fascinating. How does that worm-like caterpillar turn into a delicate creature with wings? If your child is one of those fascinated by - or even obsessed with - butterflies, check out these books on butterflies and their lives.

US Constitution - What's its history and meaning?

George Washington is one of my favorite U.S. presidents. He was a man of extraordinary character and honor, and integrity. As the first president of the United States, he set the tone for the presidency, and was quite conscience of how his behavior would influence the behavior of future presidents and the future of the fledgling nation. Gifted...

Books for Kids About the Attack on Pearl Harbor

How do we understand our present when we don't know about our past? Events that occur determine the path we take and shape our future. One event that had changed the path America would take and shape her future was the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, a day that President Franklin D. Roosevelt said would "live in infamy." Even children as young as 5 or 6 can learn about this event and how it changed the world forever.

Science Fiction Books

For those of us who read science fiction, the stories can fire up our imaginations and make us think about the role of science in the lives of mankind and where its ideas might lead us, whether it be a utopia or a dystopia. But it will always fill us with wonder and make us think. Here are some excellent science fiction books for middle school and high school kids. Adults will find them interesting as well.

Great Non-Fiction Books for Gifted Kids

If there's one thing we can say about gifted kids, it's that they have an almost unquenchable thirst for knowledge. They may not all want to know about everything about all things, but they most want to know everything about some things. Feed your child's thirst for knowledge with books on his favorite topic.

Poetry Books for Gifted Children

Looking for a way to encourage a love of, interest in, and understanding of poetry in your children? Try some of these books from Sterling Publishing aimed at young readers.

Books About Being Gifted for Kids

Parents are often advised not to tell their children they are gifted. But whether the parents tell that child or not, the child is still likely to experience the feelings that many gifted children experience: feeling weird, isolated and alone. They can feel like misfits, like they are different and don't belong. Rather than allow children to grown up with these feelings, it's better to help them understand what it means to be "gifted" and to assure them that they are not alone.

Dinosaur Books for Children

What little kid isn't fascinated by dinosaurs? Some kids are quite passionate about their interest in dinosaurs and want to learn all they can about them. Some of the favorite dinosaurs are those that are quite well known: the Tyrannasaurus Rex, the Triceratops, and the Stegasaurus, but how about the lesser-known dinosaurs like the Micropachycephalosaurus? If your child is a dinofan, you might want to add one or more of these books to his or her library.

Flatfoot Fox Mystery Series

Mysteries are one of the favorite book genres of gifted kids, and it's never too early for them to enjoy this genre. Eth Clifford's Flatfoot Fox series is perfect for young children. These books are meant for beginning readers, with a recommended age level of 6 or 7 and up, but if your child is an early reader, she might enjoy these books before that.

Themes in The Hunger Games

Some people are concerned that the book the Hunger Games might not be appropriate for children. The rather dark side to the story in the book might make you wonder whether your child should read the book. But there is more to the story than the dark elements of the plot. The book also develops many positive themes: strength of character, courage...

Fun Poetry Books for Children

Poetry is expressive in a way that short stories and novels aren't. But how do you get your child to enjoy and understand poetry? Introduce your young child to the world of poetry through these fun books of poetry. They are not only funny and clever, they can also help your child understand how poetry works.

The Hunger Games

The Hunger Games is the "new Harry Potter." As with the Harry Potter books, some people think that the story line and events are a little dark for youngsters. So just what is the book about and is it really bad for kids?

Great Audiobooks for Gifted Children

Most children love having books read to them, even after they've learned to read. There is just something magical about hearing the words and the reader's tone of voice. Some people think that putting a CD on player for children to listen to isn't as good as reading the book to their children themselves. But audiobooks have some great...

Buy a Book for Your Gifted Child

What's the best way to choose a book for a gifted child? Learn the criteria to consider when trying to make a good choice.

Mystery Book Series for Children

One of the types of books gifted kids seem to enjoy over other genres is the mystery. They enjoy reading about mystery cases and how they are solved. When you find a fun character and an engaging writing style that your child enjoys, that's always a happy event. But it's so much better when the characters appear in more than one book! These...

Books About the History of the English Language

Do you have a kid who love words and letters? Then check out these great games involving the creation of words and sentences. The whole family will enjoy playing!

Fiction Books About Pi

Everyone recognizes how important it is for children to learn math and understand mathematical concepts. Some kids pick up math easily and some don't. Fiction books based on math are perfect for both kinds of kids. These books have fun stories, word play and riddles, all of which makes learning math fun, even for kids who like math to begin with!

Books for Gifted Children

Some books are just so perfect for gifted children they can't be passed up. Here is a list with ten of the best.

Books Gifted Children Love to Read

Gifted kids don't always enjoy reading the same books other children enjoy reading. Here are some recommendations for books they will surely love to read.

Recommended Books with Gifted Characters or Themes

Sometimes gifted kids can't always relate to the characters in books and stories that other kids enjoy. Here are some books with either characters and themes that gifted kids can relate to. And they come parent recommended! Do you have one to recommend?

When a Parent is Deployed

You can help your child understand military life and deployments by sharing one of several wonderful books designed to help children cope with deployments. These books can be a wonderful way to start a conversation and help your child deal with some of the feelings he or she may be having.

More Books About Starting School

When children are about to start school for the first time, the may be a little anxious. What will they do in school all day? How should they behave? Will they make new friends? One way to help children relieve some of their anxiety is to read a few books about starting school and what's better than books with familiar and beloved characters?

Books About Starting School

When parents send their child to school for the first time, they may feel some pride, but they might also feel a little anxious. It is a big step, after all. It's not just parents, though, who feel a mix of emotions. Children will also experience a range of emotions. They may be looking forward to being more "grownup" and going to school. They...

Dinosaur Fiction for Children

Young dinosaur fans love learning all they can about all dinosaurs, the times in which they lived, the ways they lived and any other detail they can discover about dinosaurs. Dinosaurs just seem to fire up the imagination. Sometimes it's fun to read imaginative stories about dinosaurs. Stories featuring dinosaurs can be informative as well as entertaining - and who knows? After your child reads a few of these stories, he might be interested in writing some dino stories of his own!

Character Cookbooks

Sometimes getting a picky eater to eat healthful foods can be a challenge. One way to meet that challenge is to make meals fun - or at least getting the kids involved in preparing the meals in a fun way. You can get the kids involved by following some recipes in cookbooks just for kids. And to add to the appeal, the cookbooks can be with some of...

Books About Computers

Computers are everywhere and many gifted children want to know how they work and how they are programmed. These books will help gifted children of all ages find answers to the questions they have about computers and computer programming.

Children's Books about Clouds

Cloud watching can also stimulate curiosity - what are clouds? Why are there different kinds of clouds? How are clouds made? Where do they come from? Regardless of the season, get your child interested in clouds -- assuming she isn't already interested!

General Cookbooks

Getting kids involved in cooking is a great way not only to teach them some important skills, but also to encourage picky eaters to eat. After all, it's more likely that they will eat what they create!

Fairy and Folk Tales from Asia and Africa

What child doesn't like a good fairy tale or folktale? No matter where a child lives, there will be fairy tales and folktales that instruct and entertain. These stories exist in every culture in the world and they tend to have many similarities. Here are some from Asia and Africa.

Fairy Tales from Europe

Both fairy tales tell us a lot about the values and the belief system of the cultures that generate them. Fairy tales include fairies and other such magical creatures while folktales include just people. But regardless of their characters, both of entertain us! Here are some fairy tales and folktales from various European cultures.

Books About Dragons

Attention all dragon lovers! Here are books to entertain you and help you become an expert dragonologist.

Books About Traveling to the Moon

When you look up at the Moon, it's really hard to imagine that human beings landed and walked on its surface. For those who were not around on that night, it's also hard to imagine the sense of awe felt around the world when Neil Armstrong stepped off the ladder of the Apollo 11 Lunar Module, stepped onto the Moon's surface, and said, "That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind." If your child is interested in space and space travel, he or she will most certainly be fascinated by the stories of real astronauts who journeyed to the Moon.

Books for National Freedom Day

What does it mean to be free? What would you risk to be free?

Books About Building Kites

You and your child can make some kites and then go out and fly them when the weather is warm and windy. Unless you're already a kite-building expert, you will probably need some instructions on how to build one. You and your child can start with some simple ones and move on to build some more complex ones.

Books About Building Kites

You and your child can make some kites and then go out and fly them when the weather is warm and windy. Unless you're already a kite-building expert, you will probably need some instructions on how to build one. You and your child can start with some simple ones and move on to build some more complex ones.

Shakespeare for Kids

Many people dread reading Shakespeare because they find the language hard to understand. You and your child can use these books to gain an understanding of and appreciation of his work. It's never too early -- or too late!

Books About Wildflowers for Children

Encourage your child to learn about wildflowers by taking a book about wildflowers on nature walks you take together.

Books About Trees for Children

Encourage your child to learn about trees by taking a book about trees on nature walks you take together.