So you think your child is gifted. Should you have him or her tested? What kind of test? When? How old should your child be? 



 IQ tests, achievement tests, standardized tests, normed tests, off-level tests... Trying to understand all these tests can be confusing. Learn what these tests are, how they are used, and what they can tell you about your child.

Parents' Guide To IQ Testing and Gifted Education

Book Review: Parents' Guide to IQ Testing. Questions about IQ testing come up for nearly all parents of gifted children. Parents can understand some basic information about testing, but they will no doubt have many more questions. For those looking for more in-depth information about IQ testing, the Parents' Guide to IQ Testing and Gifted Education is a must-have book.

The Least You Need to Know About Testing Your Gifted Child

When parents first realize that their child might be gifted, they wonder about testing. Should I get my child tested? Where can I go for testing? Does it matter who does the testing? How much does it cost?

What is the Meaning of an IQ Test Score?

Your child takes an IQ test. You get the scores back. What do they mean? A child's IQ score, or Intelligence Quotient, provides an indication of his or her reasoning ability. The Intelligence Quotient is basically a person's mental age divided by his or her chronological age.

Parents' Guide to Understanding the Intelligence Test Results

An intelligence test has more to it than just a simple IQ score. It is made up of subtests that measure different abilities. This article describes the various subtests of the WISC-IV and explains what each measures.

How to Find Someone to Test Your Child

You think your child may be gifted, but you aren't sure. Or maybe you know your child is gifted, but you're having trouble convincing the school. In either case, you want to have your child tested, but you aren't sure how to get your child tested. Where do you go? Who should do the testing?

A Place to Start: Is My Child Gifted?

This article is an excellent overview of why you should test your child and what kinds of tests are available. The best part, however, is the list of questions to ask a potential tester.

Why Should I Have My Child Tested?

One of the first things many parents think about after discovering -- or even suspecting -- that they have a gifted child is whether or not they should get that child tested. If you are one of these parents, get the answers to all your questions.

Evaluation and Testing of Gifted Children

The world of tests and testing can be confusing. Here is a basic overview of testing. It's a good place to start.

Who Will Do the Psychological Testing to Evaluate My Gifted Child? 

Once you've determined that your child should be tested, you need to find someone to do the testing. This article provides recommendations and suggestions for finding a tester.