Many parents of gifted children find that their children are not being challenged in school. Work is too easy, the children are bored, or they simply aren't learning anything new. What is a parent to do? 



 Several options are available for these children. Some of them depend on the school the children attend, but others are available outside of school or even in a different school. 



 Discover what these options are and how to determine which ones are best for your child.

Challenging Your Child at Home

It's not unusual for parents of gifted children to find that they need to find ways to challenge their children at home. If you are one of them, what can you do?

Early Entry into Kindergarten for Gifted Children

Gifted children are often ready to begin school at age 4, but most of the time laws require children to wait until they are at least 5. Schools can usually waive the requirement, but they tend to discourage early entry. Is early entry into school a good idea for gifted children?

Terms Used in Education

When trying to determine the best school or the best program for your child, it's helpful to understand the different options that may be available. Not all schools have all these options and some options work for some gifted children, but not for others. If your district public school is your only option, you want to know what options are available and which of them would be best for your child so that you can advocate on behalf of your child to see that he or she gets the most appropriate education possible.

Terms Used in Education

When trying to determine the best school or the best program for your child, it's helpful to understand the different options that may be available. Not all schools have all these options and some options work for some gifted children, but not for others. If your district public school is your only option, you want to know what options are available and which of them would be best for your child so that you can advocate on behalf of your child to see that he or she gets the most appropriate education possible.

Exploring Unconventional Occupations with Your Teen

Gifted teens are often seen as misfits, kids who are different, who march to the beat of a different drummer. So why should we try to force them into restrictive occupations; that is, occupations that require conformity? Instead, parents might want to help their gifted teens explore unconventional occupations.

Getting Ready for Back-to-School

Every August, we need to prepare for the new school year and make sure that our children are prepared. While we want them to be prepared mentally and emotionally, we also need to see that they have all the supplies they need to help them have a successful year. Here are some supplies that your child might need.

What to Look for in a Good Gifted Program

Whether your child is already in school or about to start, you will want to evaluate what it has to offer. In order to do that, you need criteria. The elements described here are the elements of a good gifted program. Use them as criteria for evaluating any school you are considering for your child.

Definitions of Terms Related to Gifted Education

Pull-out program, cluster grouping, differentiation - these are some of the terms relating to the different educational options available to gifted children. What do they mean? Find the defintitions of these terms and others in this article.

State Curriculum Standards

Discover the curriculum standards in your state for every grade level.

Helping Your Teen Prepare for the Future

Should your child go to college? That may not be the right choice. Find out why.

Helping Your Teen Prepare for the Future

When students are juniors in high school, it is time for them to begin their college search. It is not unusual for some gifted teens to know already which colleges they want to attend and these teens may already have a plan for being admitted to those colleges. What about those gifted teens who aren't sure where they want to go or what they...

The "Horse Story" of Gifted Education

Circulating around the internet is an anonymous list of advice given by horse trainers as it might be applied to a variety of other situations. One such situation is gifted education. And anyone, including parents, who is familiar with gifted education may recognize the truth in the humor.

Personal Computers Help Gifted Students Work Smart

Computers aren't just for writing papers and playing games. Researchers found several benefits of computer use in programs for gifted children.

Military Career

Is a military career right for your gifted son or daughter? Here are some pros and cons to help you decide.

Typical Social Expectations in Kindergarten

How are children expected to behave in kindergarten? How are they expected to behave by the end of the kindergarten year? While the goals may vary somewhat from state to state, there are some typical expectations.

Best Practices of Schools that Nurture Excellence

The Genius Denied Web site has great explanations of the various options are (or should be) available for gifted children.

What to Look for in a Gifted Program

How do you know if a class or school program is a good fit for your child? This article provides questions parents can ask to help them determine if it's right for their child.

Educational Options for Highly Gifted Children

This article is the summary of a study on three educational options for gifted children: public school, private school, and homeschooling. The researcher surveyed parents in 32 states and two countries in addition to the U.S. to determine how often these options were used and how successful they were for the children.

Distance Learning Programs for Gifted Children

Does your child need more challenging material to study? Are you homeschooling but feel your child needs more than what you can provide at home? If so, check out some of these distance learning opportunities for gifted children.

Guiding the Gifted Readers

This article discusses the use of literature in the classroom to promote both intellectual and emotional development in gifted children.