When your teen is a junior in high school, it is time to start thinking about career options. Some careers require a college education, and if your teen is looking for one of those careers, then it will help to understand how to find the right school. Many parents - and their gifted teens - believe that it is essential to get into a top ranking school in order to get an appropriate education and find success in life. But this is not necessarily true. Colin Powell , for example, did not attend a highly prestigious college like Harvard or Yale and yet he rose to become Secretary of State and was considered by many to be a possible candidate for the President of the United States. What matters is that a teen find the right niche in the right school.There are two main tests that students can take: the SAT and the ACT. You and your teen will want to know a little bit about the SAT and the ACT . Generally speaking, most schools will accept one or the other of the two tests, so it doesn't always matter, which test your teen takes. However, there are a number of differences between the two tests which you and your teen will definitely want to understand before deciding which test is best.Some kids, even very bright ones, do not perform well on tests. If your teen is one of those kids, there are a few options. One is to take a test prep course, but those courses are expensive and the results may not be worth the cost . Another option is to get some test prep books which provide explanations of important concepts that will be tested, strategies for taking the tests, and sample tests (with the answers). Sometimes, just knowing what the test is like can relieve some of the stress that leads to poor test results. Some kids, though, are simply not good test takers. For them, an option is to look for schools that do not require either the SAT or the ACT. You may think that these schools are not academically demanding or very selective, but that is not necessarily true. Many schools are beginning to recognize that some very bright students do not perform well on tests.The right college for your teen is not necessarily an Ivy League school. This is true even if your teen took a college entrance exam and achieved a high score. There are several other factors to take into consideration when deciding on a school.These are just some considerations to keep in mind as you and your teen explore college options. Cost is also a consideration, but that is really a function on what your family can afford and any scholarships your teen manages to get. Once you have narrowed down your college search to a few schools, you'll want to visit the campuses Sometimes a school sounds great to a teen, but when the teen visits the campus, he doesn't care for it. And of course the opposite can happen too. My son resisted visiting the college I thought was perfect for him. After visiting the campus, he changed his mind. It ended up being the college he chose and attended!