Identifying gifted children is not easy. One reason is that gifted children are as different from one another as non-gifted children are from one another. Another reason is that there is no single agreed-upon definition of "giftedness." So how do you recognize giftedness and how do you know if your child is gifted?

The Building Blocks of the Gifted Identity

What is giftedness? What is a gifted child? These are perenial questions that many parents and others ask. The questions that aren't asked so often are questions like these: How does being gifted affect a child? How does it contribute to a child's sense of self?

Is My Child Gifted?

You notice that your child seems to be more advanced than other children of the same age. You think your child might be gifted. How can you tell?

Quick Test for Giftedness

You don't know what to make of your child. His behavior is puzzling and frustrating. Sometimes you wonder if he has ADHD, ODD, OCD, sensory integration disorder, or some other disorder or syndrome. You wonder if he has a learning disability. Or maybe, you think, he is lazy and irresponsible. Maybe, however, your child is gifted.

What is a Gifted Child?

Defining what it means to be gifted is extremely difficult. Numerous definitions have been suggested, but none of them seem to capture the essence of giftedness in a way that satisfies everyone.

Characteristics of Gifted Children

Parents often notice that their child is not quite like other children, but they just as often question what those differences mean. They know their child is smart, but gifted? Looking at a list of gifted traits or characteristics is a quick first step in determining whether a child is gifted.

What is a Gifted Child?

This article goes well beyond a simple list of gifted characteristics. It discusses giftedness in terms of truth, beauty, and goodness, and also provides some historical context. Through examples, it puts you into the mind of a gifted child to understand their feelings and frustrations.

Gifted or Bright?

One of the questions parents of gifted children ask most often is whether or not their child is really gifted or just bright. Here's a quick comparison of the characteristics of bright children and gifted children.

Is Your Child Gifted? What to Look for and Why You Should Know...

This is a wonderful article that explains what to look for to determine if your child is gifted and why it's important that you know it.