This is an attitude that I, and many other parents of gifted children, encounter all the time from so many different people. In this case, the comment comes from Glennon Doyle Melton in her article "Your Child is Gifted." It sounds so lovely expressed this way: gifts to be unwrapped. But that makes it seem as though giftedness is hidden and can only be revealed when "unwrapped."

The truth is that giftedness is inherent and can appear very early in a child, as early as infancy. We don't need to "unwrap" it. We need to nurture it. No one wants to detract from other children whose specialness or whose talents and abilities do need to be unwrapped, but I wish people would understand that acknowledging that some children are gifted does not mean that other children are not special or don't do some wonderful things.

Perhaps what makes it difficult for some people to understand giftedness is the lack of consensus even by experts as to what giftedness is. We can find several different definitions of gifted. We can also see that at times programs in school that are called "gifted programs" aren't always for gifted children, but for high achievers. They don't always meet the criteria of a good gifted program.

However, experts who try to define giftedness often do so in order to make it easier for schools to identify and serve these children. The definitions determine what schools should look for in children and how they should design their programs. Unfortunately, in many cases, schools create a program and then look for children that will be best served by the program. That is backwards and often contributes to the misunderstanding of what giftedness is. It also helps contribute to the resentment parents of non-gifted children seem to feel because their children don't get into the "gifted" class.

Parents of gifted children don't need to identify children for gifted programs. They are free to recognize giftedness in their children, and there are several ways we know our children are gifted, long before anyone tells us.

Ms. Dalton also said this: "We have to actually believe that our kids are OK." I agree. We do. However, like many people who don't understand what it is to be gifted, Ms. Dalton doesn't seem to realize that many gifted children struggle with fitting in. They definitely don't feel "OK."  It doesn't help that some teachers will single gifted children out in a classroom and mock them or tell them that they aren't so "special." It doesn't help that other children may make fun of them. I have to wonder if these children hear their parents say things like "All children are gifted" or "Some parents just like to brag about their kids, but their kids aren't so special."

Years ago, Michael C. Thompson gave an eloquent speech in which he responded to the claim that all children are gifted. And yet, we still hear that claim. Over. And over. And over. And over. No. All children are not gifted. Perhaps one day everyone will understand and parents of gifted children won't feel as isolated and alone as their children often do.