Issues of Gifted Children in the School Environment

Gifted Children often have problems socializing with their age mates at school. In addition, if these children are not challenged in school, they may become underachievers or they may misbehave. Learning how to talk to your child's teacher and advocate for your child is critical to his or her success.

Do Gifted Children Spend Time in School Waiting?

Do gifted kids really spend a lot of time in class waiting...waiting...waiting? This study provides some answers.

Do Gifted Children Spend Time in School Waiting?

Do gifted kids really spend a lot of time in class waiting...waiting...waiting? This study provides some answers.

Why your child needs an appropriate academic setting

What would you say if someone suggested that special needs children didn't need and specialized accommodations in school? My guess is that you would think that person either didn't care or didn't understand the special needs of those children. Of course, few people, if any, would actually make such a suggestion about special needs kids --...

Why You Should Attend Back-to-School Night

Back-to-School Nights aren't meant to be social mixers where have lots of time to talk with the teacher and with other parents. However, there are some very good reasons to attend.

Get the Most Out of Back-to-School Night



What's Wrong with Straight A's?

Most parents want their children to do well in school, and that usually means getting A's. They believe that good grades will help guarantee that their children will lead happy, productive, and successful lives. However, straight A's can actually be a sign that your child isn't learning what he needs to learn in order to be successful in life.

Volunteer at Your Child's School

There are a number of good reasons to volunteer at your child's school: help provide a good classroom and school environment, help the teacher complete mundane tasks so she has more time to focus on teaching, learn about where and how your child spends his day, and build relationships with the teacher and the school. Here are some ideas on what...

Exceptional Teachers - Descriptions of Great Teachers

We hear so many complaints about teachers that we sometimes forget that there are some exceptional teachers out there. Here are some stories about some of those great teachers.

School Bullying

Bullying in schools is becoming an increasingly disturbing problem.

Work to Show Your Child's Teacher

How can you convince your child's teacher that your child is ready for more advanced work? Many teachers have encountered parents who believe their child is the smartest kid in town, so it's not enough to talk about it. Showing examples of what your child is capable of doing can convince where words alone can't! A portfolio is good to show the teacher, but anything that shows what your child can ...

Crazy School Comments

Even when we do our best to discuss the needs of our gifted children and advocate for our child in an attempt to get those needs met, we sometimes hit a brick wall. Sometimes when we talk to our children's teacher or principal, we hear some pretty crazy comments. Here are some great examples.

Tips for Talking With Your Gifted Child's Teacher

All children, even gifted children, can encounter problems in school. When this happens, the child's success can be helped or hampered by the relationship between the child's teacher and parents. Learn how to discuss school issues with your child's teacher in ways that can help your child.

Should You Tell the Teacher Your Child is Gifted?

When summer winds down and school is about to start, parents of gifted children begin to wonder whether they should say anything to the teacher about their child's abilities or wait and see if the teacher recognizes the abilities on his or her own. What's the best approach?

If Dr. Seuss had a gifted child ....

Can you imagine what Dr. Seuss might say if he had had a gifted child? Mary Beth Northrup could imagine it and wrote a poem in Dr. Seuss style that parents of gifted kids will surely identify with.

Keeping a Portfolio of Your Gifted Child's Work

It is sometimes difficult for parents of gifted children to get their child's academic needs met. Keeping a portfolio of your child's work that illustrates his or her abilities can help.

The No Child Left Behind Act and Gifted Children

The No Child Left Behind law was enacted to improve education in the United States. Too many children were not learning and would not be able to meet basic proficiency requirements. Many people believe NCLB is helping, but how does this law affect gifted children?

Gifted Children and Lack of Attention

A common myth of gifted children is that they are eager and attentive students. The truth is that they are often inattentive and appear to be distracted.

Do Abilities Even Out in Third Grade?

One of the obstacles parents of gifted children encounter when trying to get more appropriate learning materials and instruction for their children in school is the argument that "everything evens out by third grade." Is that true?

Is It a Cheetah?

Gifted children are not always high achievers. In fact, underachievement among gifted children is a serious problem. But is an underachieving gifted child any less gifted than one who achieves? Stephanie Tolan answers this question in her article "Is It a Cheetah?"

Distinctive Gifts for Teachers

Most teachers work hard and don't get a lot of thanks for their hard work. The end of the school year is a perfect time for you to show your appreciation of your child's teacher - especially if your child's teacher went beyond the call of duty to provide an appropriate academic environment for your child! Here are some ideas for teachers gifts.

Great Gifts for Teachers

Most teachers work hard and don't get a lot of thanks for their hard work. The end of the school year is a perfect time for you to show your appreciation of your child's teacher - especially if your child's teacher went beyond the call of duty to provide an appropriate academic environment for your child! Here are some ideas for teachers gifts.

Solutions to Bullying

Bullying is a growing problem in our schools. What can you do about it? Here are some ideas.

Parent - Teacher Interviews: Guidelines for Parents

This article provides guidelines for parent-teacher interviews, from preparing for the interview to conducting the interview to the interview follow up. Parent-teacher conferences are more likely to be productive if parents are prepared for the process.

Ten Tips for Parents of Gifted Students

Monique Lloyd provides ten tips for parents of gifted children to help them get an appropriate education for their children. Most of the tips will help parents prepare for meetings with the teacher, but all of the tips will help parents see that their children are well-educated, even if some of that education occurs at home.

How to Be a Pushy Parent

Parents of gifted children are frequently accused of being "pushy." Linda Kreger Silverman tells us that we sometimes need to be and explains how!