It isn't easy being a teenager and that's as true for gifted teens as it is for all teens. Sensitivity, perfectionism, social isolation, and pressure from adults can add to the stress gifted adolescents feel.

Helping Your Teen Make the Right College Choice

Should your child go to college? That may not be the right choice. Find out why.

Helping Your Teen Make the Right College Choice

When students are juniors in high school, it is time for them to begin their college search. It is not unusual for some gifted teens to know already which colleges they want to attend and these teens may already have a plan for being admitted to those colleges. What about those gifted teens who aren't sure where they want to go or what they...

Helping Gifted Teens Find the Right Career

Many gifted teens are interested in many subjects, and consider each one to be a potential career. They may get stressed wondering what career path to follow. If your gifted teen has trouble focusing on a career, how can you help?

Exploring Unconventional Occupations with Your Teen

Gifted teens are often seen as misfits, kids who are different, who march to the beat of a different drummer. So why should we try to force them into restrictive occupations; that is, occupations that require conformity? Instead, parents might want to help their gifted teens explore unconventional occupations.

Choosing the Right College

Many people think that the best colleges for gifted kids are Ivy League schools or other top ranking universities. It may surprise you to know that this is not always true.

College Planning for Gifted and Talented Youth

Whether your gifted child is an underachiever or a perfectionist with straight A's, he or she will need to know what to do to prepare for college. This article will provide a basic understanding of what kids need to focus on as well as what colleges are looking for.

Overcoming Teen Depression: A Guide for Parents

This is a book review from Terri Mauro, Guide to Special Children. From Terri: The book explains "the types of and treatments for depression, and lets parents know how they can help."

My Kind of Sad (Book Review)

Another book review from Terri Mauro, Guide to Special Children. This one is also about depression, but it's directed at the teenagers themselves rather than parents.

Tips for Parents: Adolescence and the HG/PG Individual (2006)

This article provides some excellent information to help parents of highly and profoundly gifted teenagers.

Independence and Relationship Issues in Intellectually Gifted Teens

All teens struggle to establish independence and relationships. Gifted teens are no different. Their giftedness does, however, add additional dimensions to the struggle. Find out what they are and what you can do to help your teen.

Tips for parents: Gifted...and teenage, too

Dr. Jim Delisle, a well-known expert on gifted children, provides some excellent advice for parenting gifted teenagers.

Adolescence and Gifted: Addressing Existential Dread

Because of their intense sensitivity, gifted teenagers may suffer more than other teens from "existential dread," a sense of hopelessness about the future. It is not caused by anything in the teen's life, but by the human condition the teen sees in the world. What can be done about it?

Thinking Through Early Entrance to College

When their children are very young, parents of gifted children may struggle with the decision to start their child in school early. Another difficult decision for some gifted parents is whether to allow their child to start college early. This article gives parents some facts to help them make that decision.

Parents' Guide to College Planning for Gifted Kids

People often think that gifted teens will have an easy time planning for college. For various reasons, though, it can be more difficult that either the teens or their parents expect. This article explains what to avoid in high school and what to look for in a college.

Careers for Gifted People - Unconventional Careers for Unconv...

For many gifted people, most of the careers that the majority of people choose are not very appealing. This article provides some ideas for careers that many people aren't aware of -- or that don't even exist yet!

Careers for Gifted People - Unconventional Careers for Unconv...

For many gifted people, most of the careers that the majority of people choose are not very appealing. This article provides some ideas for careers that many people aren't aware of -- or that don't even exist yet!