Whether you are just starting out on your journey as the parent of a gifted child or you've known for a while that your child is gifted, you have no doubt been plagued by numerous questions. And you might have noticed that it can be hard to find the answers to those questions. The number one question parents have is about whether or not their child is gifted. When we suspect that our child is gifted, we experience such a wide range of emotions and we find few people to talk to who understand us. We are told that all parents think their child is gifted. We are told to let our kid be a kid. We are told we don't want to be too pushy. We start to second and even third or fourth guessing ourselves.

As the parent of a gifted child who has "been there and done that," I know how confusing and frustrating it can be to know if our child is gifted and if she is, what that means and what we need to do about it. If you have questions, this is the place to start looking for answers.

How can I tell if my child is gifted?

At what age can one determine whether a child is gifted?

Is my child gifted or just a fast learner?

How reliable is it to use "intense interests" to identify giftedness?

Where can I take my 18 month old to see if he's gifted?

How do I nurture my gifted child?

How do I keep my gifted child challenged and stimulated?

Do Gifted Children Need Less Sleep?

What kind of school is best for gifted kids? Public or private?

What is the right score for admittance to a gifted program?

Should I tell the teacher my child is gifted?

Can boredom cause behavior problems in school?

How can I get my son to stop worrying about death?

Does my baby have colic or does she just need stimulation?

How can I get my child to stop an activity without her getting upset?

What is the difference between being shy and being introverted?

How do I keep my child interested in her toys?

Do you have a question that isn't answered here? Email your question to me and I'll try to answer it and then post it here.