What do you need to know about kindergarten and your gifted child? Get all the answers here.

Early Entry into Kindergarten

Some people strongly believe that gifted kids should start kindergarten early, before they turn five. Others believe, just as strongly, that gifted kids should wait. Read about some parents' experiences with their decision to start their child early or to wait.

Early Entry into Kindergarten for Gifted Children

Gifted children are often ready to begin school at age 4, but most of the time laws require children to wait until they are at least 5. Schools can usually waive the requirement, but they tend to discourage early entry. Is early entry into school a good idea for gifted children?

Typical Kindergarten Curriculum

What will children learn in kindergarten? What are they expected to know at the end of the kindergarten year? While the goals may vary from state to state, there are some general guidelines of a kindergarten curriculum.

Typical Kindergarten Social Science Curriculum

What will children learn about social science in kindergarten? What are they expected to know at the end of the kindergarten year? While the goals may vary somewhat from state to state, there are some typical expectations.

Typical Kindergarten Science Curriculum

What will children learn about science in kindergarten? What are they expected to know at the end of the kindergarten year? While the goals may vary somewhat from state to state, there are some typical expectations.

Typical Kindergarten Math Curriculum

What will your child learn about numbers and math in kindergarten? What will he or she be expected to know by the end of the kindergarten year? This list will give you some idea of what to expect.

Typical Kindergarten Language Arts Curriculum

What will children learn about reading and writing in kindergarten? What are they expected to know at the end of the kindergarten year? While the goals may vary somewhat from state to state, there are some typical expectations.

Typical Social Expectations in Kindergarten

How are children expected to behave in kindergarten? How are they expected to behave by the end of the kindergarten year? While the goals may vary somewhat from state to state, there are some typical expectations.

Starting Kindergarten Later Gives Students Only A Fleeting Edge, Study Finds

What does the research say about holding kids back?