You can't always find the respite care you need to take a break from your children, but if you can steal a moment now and then, you can have a little fun online and maybe blow off some steam. Try these time-wasters and guilty pleasures, and you may even get a few good ideas for entertaining your kids, too.

Parenting RoundAbout Podcast

Listen to Parenting RoundAbout, a weekly podcast in which four About.com experts chat about parenting issues.

Fun 911 - Emergency Parent-Powered Playthings

When the playdate goes on past your planned activities, or a party starts to poop out, or the weather keeps kids unexpectedly indoors, you need some emergency supplies to keep the good times going. Here are nine things you can pull from the pantry, the closet, and the recycling pile for a little fun on the fly. Many of them offer additional...

Special-Needs Printables

From forms to greeting cards, bookmarks to gift coupons, you can find free printables both fun and useful all around this Children With Special Needs site.

Family Gathering Bingo

Make a game of those ghastly get-togethers with a customizable Family Gathering Bingo board you can mark each time the predictable awfulness occurs.

Celebrity Parents of Children with Special Needs

Having a celebrity speak out about his or her child's special needs is often a good way to get attention for a particular disability. These celebrities have talked about their child's disability in the media, providing inspiration or advocacy or, in some cases, controversy.

Site of the Day: Alphabetical Index

Find sites of the day listed alphabetically by name.

Sites of the Day: Index by Date

Looking for somewhere good to surf? A daily destination of interest to parents of children with special needs is featured on About.com Parenting Special Needs. Browse through these indexes that list the chosen sites by the day they were chosen.

Fun Things to Do Today

Running out of inspiration? Here's a handful of things to do -- with your kids, or for your own procrastinating self -- to keep you informed, amused and occupied.

Alphabet Soup Quiz

Test your knowledge of common special-needs acronyms with this quick and silly quiz.

Alphabet Soup Quiz: Special-Education Edition

Do you know your IEP from your FAPE? Test your knowledge of special-education acronyms.

Question of the Day

A daily poll on issues concerning children with special needs, their parents and families.

A big part of raising awareness and acceptance for people with disabilities is making their stories part of popular culture. Check my list of TV series that have regularly featured characters or performers with special needs, and add a review of these or other shows I've missed.

From Temple Grandin's Emmy triumph to Jennifer Anniston's poor choice of words, look back at 10 moments in entertainment, news, and sports that caught our attention in 2010.

Special-Needs Special Events - Awareness and Advocacy Events, Month by Month

Every month, every week, and many days of the year have been set aside to promote awareness or advocacy of an illness, disability, or other special-needs-related cause. Use this month-by-month index to make sure you mark those special occasions. You can also fill out a form to include others in your local area or area of interest.

2012 in Review: The Special-Needs Stories That Caught Our Attention

Take a month-by-month look back at what you read about and commented about on this About.com Parenting Special Needs site in 2012.