You may be too busy running around taking your child to appointments and activities to seek out a specific support group for yourself. But look around in all those places you wait around, and you may find lots of other moms and dads just as in need of support, advice, and information about parenting special kids as you are. Whether you're hoping for specific advice, informed discussions on special needs, or a chance to pour out your heart to someone who understands, look for fellowship in the following places.

Therapists' Offices

 Instead of burying your nose in your book or your phone, or using the time to run errands, see if your fellow waiting parents are up for a chat. You may find you have a lot in common; you may also find you have something to learn from that parent, or some wisdom of your own to pass on. Often, you can hardly opt out of this sort of conversation, because the room is full of questions and answers and suggestions of therapies that just have to be tried or programs that are brilliant or horrible. It's a support and discussion group that you're part of just by being somewhere you'd have to be anyway, so jump on in.

Special-Needs Sports

 At most children's sports games, you can find parents on the bleachers yelling encouragement to their kids or berating the ump. At special-needs sports events, there's still plenty of cheering, but breaks in the action are often filled with spectator chatter as parents compare notes, share stories, and discuss options for their special kids. Get to know your fellow sports parents, and you may find some whose kids are in a similar situation to yours, or maybe a little ahead on the road your child will be following. They can be a great resource for finding out what things are like in your area and what sort of help is available, and will be ready to listen to good news or bad with a sympathetic ear and helpful suggestions. Offer the same yourself.

School

 Especially if your child is in a self-contained classroom or specialized school, getting involved with your child's school (which you should be doing anyway) will put you in the presence of lots of people who have a heart for special kids, from the parents you'll meet in school groups to the professionals who fill the hallways. Volunteering at the library is a particularly good way to make yourself available for informal conversations with teachers, therapists, the librarian, and other parents who come to help out. While shelving books or stamping cards, you may be able to gain volumes of support and counsel.

Playgroups

 Not the kind of playgroup where your child is the odd one out and the other mothers look at you funny. Form a playgroup of your own with kids from your child's special-education classroom or other special-needs activities you enjoy, and you'll have a ready-made set of park-bench mates to chat with for support and advice. You'll all be at the same level of hawklike watching of your children, of course, but especially if you take turns being the hovering helicopter parent, there should be plenty of time for an impromptu support group among the swings and slides.

Camp Mom

 My do-it-yourself day camp program involves having kids and parents over to somebody's house every day of the summer. That will help the children bond, and should do the same for the parents. During organizational meetings, field-trip drives, free play for the children, long walks with little campers, playground trips, and other moments in the day when the kids are doing their thing with moderate supervision, you can talk with other parents about what's going on that day, that week, and in the school year ahead. You may find, after camp is done, that your friendship with your fellow parent-counselors will continue as a support group whenever you can manage to get your kids together.

Books

 Parents who write memoirs about their experiences may not be accessible to you in person, but a book can easily tag along to any waiting room, park bench, or child activity you've got going. If what you want most of all is proof that you are not alone, others are sharing your experience, special-needs memoirs can be a good source of support and understanding that's available wherever you are, whenever you need. Other books provide the same kind of advice and suggestions gained through personal experience that you'd get from people in your presence. Plus, if the conversation takes a turn you don't like or bores you a bit, you can alway skip ahead or abandon the book with no hard feelings. No one's going to tsk you the next time you see them because you didn't follow up on advice ... unless the advice was to finish the book. Find some good titles to try on the Harried Parent's Book Club.