Do you find yourselves rushing frantically to get out the door on time in the mornings? Here are some easy and smart ways to streamline your morning routine. Photo: Getty Images

A new study has shown that cutting down screen time can have a positive effect on kids' physical, social, and behavioral well-being, and can even improve their academic performance. This, paired with previous studies that have shown that too much screen time can interfere with sleep, cut down family time, negatively affect schoolwork and attention spans, and put a child at increased risk for obesity, and you have a lot of reasons to limit screen time (and not a lot of reasons to allow hours of TV and texting). Read about how "Cutting Down Kids' Screen Time Means Better Health, Grades for Kids" and take steps to get your child to step away from screens. Sit down and read a book, play games together, and head outside to play together as a family. Over time, you're likely to see a difference in your child's health, happiness, and even grades. Follow me on Twitter. Become a fan on Facebook. Subscribe to my newsletter.

A new film called Fed Up, produced by Katie Couric and Laurie David (who produced An Inconvenient Truth), is taking on big sugar--that is, food companies that are loading up seemingly healthy foods like corn flakes with sugar. The film points out that as much as 80 percent of food items in America contain added sugar, which is highly addictive. What that means for consumers is rising rates of obesity and illnesses like diabetes, even in children. I haven't seen the film yet but I definitely plan to. This is an important issue for all parents since our children are the ones whose eating habits and palates have become modified to want sugar in increasing amounts. As experts in the film's trailer point out, getting kids to exercise is not enough. We need to really look at what they are eating, and what ingredients are on those labels when we pick up something that looks innocent like a box of whole-grain, low-fat crackers. (Yep, chances are it will be loaded with sugar.) To help you spot hidden sugar in foods and cut down the sugar in your family's diet, read my article, "Sugar and Kids: How to Cut Down on How Much They Eat." Follow me on Twitter. Become a fan on Facebook. Subscribe to my newsletter.

What annoys Americans the most? One of the top items on the list has to do with out-of-control kids, according to a new Harris Poll. The poll, which surveyed over 2,200 adults, found that as many as 87 percent people said they can't stand it when parents let their kids run amok or be disruptive in public places. To put it in perspective, that's even more than the number of people who are irked by fellow airplane passengers who misuse overhead bins by, say, taking up all the storage space or using bins that aren't near where they're sitting (65 percent) or the number of people who are irritated by those who talk loudly on their cellphones in public places (65 percent). I gotta admit that I find it appalling when parents don't discipline their kids. Sure, every child has a tantrum now and then, and even the nicest kids can have an off day or cranky moments. (Hey, kids, like adults, are only human.) But when parents don't discipline at all, and don't even make a move to calm or quiet a child who's having a full-blown meltdown that is loud enough to set off car alarms, then it's just downright inconsiderate. Just another reminder why we should discipline kids---not only for the sake of anyone nearby but for the good of your own child as well. Disciplining kids not only makes other people around you happier, but research shows that it can make kids happier, too. Follow me on Twitter. Become a fan on Facebook. Subscribe to my newsletter.