There are as many different causes of behavior problems in 5-year-old children as there are individual differences in children's personalities and preferences. But when it comes to disciplining and correcting behavior in 5-year old children, parents have a big advantage because children this age are much more verbal, and are able to reason and discuss problems with their parents.

For instance, a 5-year-old child will be better able to express his feelings using words when he is frustrated by something, whereas a toddler may resort to a tantrum because he doesn't yet have the verbal skills to articulate his feelings. Similarly, parents can encourage 5-year-olds to talk about what may be causing unacceptable behavior, and discuss with their child ways that may help him make better decisions.

Some 5-year-olds may struggle with the transition to kindergarten. They may experience separation anxiety, or worry about interacting with new and unfamiliar peers and teachers. They may have trouble adapting to a classroom environment where they will be expected to pay attention, follow directions, and share and cooperate with others.

Behavioral problems in children this age may also stem from frustration since many 5-year-old children may want to do things that they are not yet developmentally able to do. Some children this age may want to achieve perfection -- say, draw a picture of a house or mom or dad perfectly -- and become unhappy and frustrated with themselves if they do not get the result they wanted.

Five-year-olds may also test limits as they try out their developing sense of independence. You may see behavior problems such as talking back or defiance. At the same time, 5-year-old children have not been that far out of the preschool years, and it's common to see children this age still resorting to tantrums and whining to express themselves.

The best way to handle discipline of 5-year-olds is by providing them with consistent reminders about what is and is not acceptable behavior and what is expected of them. It is also important to understand that children this age are processing a lot of information and new expectations, and what may look like defiance may actually be a child simply being focused on an activity, and lacking the self-regulation to pull herself away and transition to something else. If a 5-year-old is dawdling or seems to ignore a request to, say, pick up her toys, she may simply be too engrossed in an activity to hear you.

Other discipline tips to keep in mind: