Would year round school or a longer school day solve our nation's concerns about school performance? Would it help to produce more globally competitive citizens? It is questions like these that lay at the heart of debate about whether or not to have longer school days or to make school a year round institution.

Many who argue for year round school believe that more is better. United States President Barack Obama is among them. ""The-challenges of the new century demand more time in the classroom." he stated.

Frederick M. Hess, Director of Education Policy Studies for the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, notes that few countries offer more than seven consecutive weeks of vacation for students--as opposed to the United States' average of thirteen weeks. Hess suggests that following the agrarian calendar is an anachronistic way of running schools.

Not all educators agree that more time is better and the research, including studies published in the  Economics of Education Review (2008); Phi Delta Kappan (2007) and research conducted by Elena Silva, a policy analyst at Education Sector, back them up.

In fact, all of these studies found that for most students there is no correlation between the length of the school day or year and academic achievement. What they did find, however, was that how the time in the classroom was spent was incredibly important. In other words, it's not how long kids are in the classroom, it's how engaged in learning they are while there are there.

Baines, L. (2007). Learning from the world: Achieving more by doing less. Phi Delta Kappan. Oct. 2007, 98 - 100.

Hess, F. (April, 2009). To Fix Education, School Hours and Money Need to Be Better Spent. U.S. News & World Report, Retrieved September 29,2010

Silva, E. (2007). On the clock: Rethinking the way schools use time. Washington, D.C.: Education Sector.

Sims, D.P. (2008). Strategic responses to school accountability measures: It's all in the timing. Economics of Education Review, 27, 58-68.

Silvernail, D. & Bickford, R. (2009). Extended School Year Fast Facts. University of Southern Maine: Center for Education Policy, Applied Research and Evaluation.