In today's fast-paced, high-tech world, family life and family relationships can often use a little extra TLC. Here, parents can find great, useful ideas on everything from how to throw terrific kids' birthday parties to organizing your home. Plus, other tips on family life topics such as giving kids chores; how to carve out couple time, family time, and time for yourself; and how to help your grade-schooler navigate technology and entertainment.

Kid birthday parties can be fun, but coming up with ideas for kids' birthday parties and planning and prepping can be tough for parents, especially when they're already juggling too many responsibilities. Try these great kid birthday party and kids' birthday cake ideas to make your next celebration a hit your child will remember. Plus, tips on holiday celebrations and fun activities for the whole family.

Children love making something to give to people they love, and Mother's Day gives them an opportunity to create a special present--whether it's a handmade card or a picture--to give to Mom, their grandmothers, aunts, and other mothers they know and love. Here are some fun and easy Mother's Day crafts for kids to make for moms' special day.

There are so many benefits to creating crafts for holidays, special occasions, or for anytime of the year, and spring and Easter are especially wonderful times for kids' crafts. (Just think of all those pretty colors and flowers!) Creating colorful and pretty crafts with kids is a great way to get kids to exercise their imaginations and develop their fine-motor skills. Plus, it's a great way for parents and kids to do something fun together and spend some time together as a family. And when your spring and Easter projects are finished, you can show them off and share them with friends and family!

How to organize your home and life to maximize your time. Plus, how chores and lessons about money management can teach kids about responsibility.

These days, grade-schoolers are exposed to an ever-increasing array of technology and entertainment. Here are some important guidelines on how parents can help navigate kids TV shows, movies, video games and other media and technology to make the best choices for themselves and their children.

Since family time can all too often be so hard to find in the hustle and bustle of daily routines, here are some ideas for how to carve out time to be together and make the most of it. From great trips to organizing weekends, here are some great ideas for finding family time and having fun.

You know what a tough job parenting can be. That's why it's essential for parents to find time for themselves -- to be a couple, to spend time with friends, and to renew and rejuvenate themselves so that they can have the energy and joy to be the best parents they can be.

Today, it's more important than ever that we teach our children how to take care of our planet and put environmentally friendly habits into daily practice. Here are some ways we can make sure our children become empowered to help protect our planet.