As frustrating as 6-year-old behavior problems may sometimes be, teaching through loving discipline is an effective way to deal with them.

Six-year-old children are experiencing increased independence and flexing newfound skills and abilities. At the same time, they are still young children who are capable of becoming easily frustrated and upset by setbacks and disappointments.

These back-and-forth steps to being a big kid can lead to behavior problems that are common for this age. Typical 6-year-old behavior problems can include talking back, defiance, and whining. Children who have siblings may engage in sibling fighting as they jockey for parents' attention and affection.

The good news is that 6-year-old behavior problems can be handled with the right mix of understanding, firmness, and good communication. Try these ideas for how to handle behavior problems in 6-year-old children.

Consciously or not, many 6-year-olds are testing boundaries as they become more interested in making decisions for themselves, doing more things on their own, and generally moving toward having more control over things in their life. As they develop their own personalities and form their unique likes and dislikes, they may express defiance when asked to do something they don't want to do. They may talk back and make declarations such as, "You are not the boss of me!"

Children this age are also going through a great deal of changes and processing new experiences such as the start of first grade. Many may exhibit behaviors more common among younger children such as whining, clinginess and even tantrums. Other common 6-year-old behavior problems can include refusal to go to school or school anxiety.

While such behaviors may be frustrating and upsetting, it's important for parents to keep in mind that these attempts at asserting their independence is a perfectly normal part of child development.

As children get older, parents may need to make adjustments in how they handle discipline and consequences. Managing behavior problems in 6-year-old children is often a matter of establishing firm guidance and boundaries and then giving your child the opportunity to make the right choices. You may find that discipline strategies that worked well when your child was younger -- such as time-outs -- are less effective now that your child is older.

However you choose to handle behavior problems in your 6-year-old, it's important to keep in mind that children this age are feeling out their newfound sense of independence and testing their limits in all areas of their lives, including behavior. Stay patient and try the following strategies for disciplining a 6-year-old child.