When the kids head back to school, moms can take some time to take care of themselves.

After a long summer of running around with the kids, many moms need a makeover, stat. When fall comes around, moms can finally carve out more time to turn their attention to themselves with a health and beauty makeover. We can find a fun new fitness class or overhaul our beauty routines to feel renewed and re-energized.

Here are some terrific ideas for ways we moms can get gorgeous for fall, from Nina Sutton, TV host for Pretty.Smart at WalMart.com and author of The Chic Mom's Guide to Feeling Fabulous:

1. First, exfoliate. "Your face is the first thing people see," says Sutton. "Exfoliate dead skin with an in-home peel or see your dermatologist for a microdermabrasion treatment to make your skin glow." Another benefit of exfoliation: After running around in the sun with the kids all summer, brown spots can form on the skin. Exfoliation can help minimize the appearance of these spots.

Some great peels to try:

At the dermatologist or medical aesthetician's office, ask for a derma plane, which is a procedure that uses a surgical blade to remove the top layer of skin. It costs about $50 and there is no downtime, says Sutton. "It gives me the smoothest baby skin ever," says Sutton. "It also helps with brown spots and fine wrinkles, and my skin looks visibly lighter afterwards."

And if you're looking for cheap and natural DIY treatments, try these:



2. Then, moisturize. Put some olive oil on your face before you step into the shower to get your skin seriously soft and moisturized (the steam lets your skin absorb the oil, leaving it as soft as the proverbial baby's bottom). Other great oils to try on your face and body: Monoi oil (compare prices) or Biol-Oil (compare prices).

If you've been hitting the beaches and pools, your hair may have taken a beating from sun exposure and chlorine. Restore your hair's luster and color with these tips:

Excellent for busy moms this fall: A primer with SPF in it. "They give you a natural look to your face -- matte, perfect skin," says Sutton. "Prmiers are a light, silicone bases that you apply before regular makeup. They fill in creases, smoothing out skin tone so that makeup looks better. Sometimes, they can look great alone." One to try: Miracle Skin Transformer with SPF 20 (compare prices).

Also trending: bold eyelashes and brows combined with matte skin and nude lips. "This is a super easy look for moms to achieve," says Sutton. Here's how you can do it yourself:

When choosing clothes and accessories this fall, think stylish and practical for school drop-off and running around in, says Sutton. Some fall trends to look for:

Brighten your smile. One of the most effective ways to make yourself more attractive is by simply smiling. "If you're smiling, you're beautiful," says Sutton. That's why one of the best beauty tips is to brighten your teeth. Sutton recommends something as easy as Crest 3D Whitestrips, which are sold in drugs stores.

Age-proof your hands. "It's one of the first places where people show their age," says Sutton. "Try exfoliating treatments on hands, and if you use a retinol-based product on your face, put it on your hands as well." Sutton also recommends Bio-Oil, which is good for dehydrated skin.