Reading, writing, arithmetic -- your grade-schooler's academic world is opening up. What you need to know for your child's school success, including homework-helping tips and ideas for parent-teacher coordination.

What are Common Core State Standards and The Arguments for and Against Them

What are common core state standards and what the disagreements are about whether or not we should have these standards in our schools for children K to 12?

School Safety -- What Parents Need to Know About School Lockdown Drills

Important information about school security and lockdown drills in schools today.

Is Your Child Ready for Sleepaway Camp?

Is your child is ready for sleepaway camp program? Consider factors such depends on a number of factors such as how well he does with unfamiliar situations and people in addition to his age.

The Importance of Boosting Emotional Intelligence and Teaching Empathy to Kids

Teaching empathy and nurturing emotional intelligence in a child is one of the most important jobs we have as parents. Research shows that emotional intelligence may even be more important for life success than intellectual intelligence. And teaching empathy to a child may be an important factor in warding off bullying behavior.

What is Math Anxiety and How Can You Help a Child Who Has It?

How can parents help a child who is experiencing math anxiety? Here are some reasons why math anxiety happens and what parents can do to help their child with this common problem among school-age children.

School and Health

Tips for keeping kids healthy are important if you want to avoid illnesses during the school year. Here are some tips on how to help kids stay healthy during school and beyond.

School Lunch Ideas and Recipes

Looking for school lunch ideas? Here are some easy and delicious ideas for healthy school lunches your child will love to eat.

What Ideas Do You Have for Great After School Snacks for Kids

Send us your ideas for your best after-school snacks. They can be creative, fun, healthy, or delicious--whatever favorite snacks your kids love.

Quick and Healthy After-School Snacks

Kids often want a snack after school to tide them over until dinnertime. Here are some great ideas and tips for kids' after-school snacks.

Ideas for Quick and Healthy After-School Snacks

Healthy, fast, yummy, and nutritious after school snacks ideas to give your kids after school.

Top 10 Tips on Teaching Kids About Money

When it comes to teaching kids about money, one of the most important lessons you can teach your child is how to have a healthy attitude about money. By helping your grade-schooler learn basic skill such as how to save and manage money -- and put it in perspective with other important things such as charity and family -- you'll give her...

How to Choose and Use School Backpacks Correctly to Prevent Back Pain

Carrying heavy school backpacks and using them incorrectly can lead to back pain in school-age children. Use these tips for buying the right backpack and using it correctly to prevent back pain in your child.

Bullying in Schools

School bullying is, unfortunately, a common problem among children. Bullying can happen at any age -- even as young as kindergarten or preschool -- and can take many forms, ranging from hurtful language to physical aggression. But parents can learn about bullying, and take steps to spot, prevent, and handle this problem as soon as they see it.

Your 9-Year-Old Child: Cognitive Development

Many 9-year-old children are curious about the world and how and why things are the way they are. Nine-year-olds may enjoy doing research to learn about the world and make sense of things. They are forming their own opinions about things.

Great Books for Grade-School Age Children

Reading books with your children is one of the best ways to bond and spend time together. Here are some great children's books for older and younger grade school age children.

Your 8 Year Old Child: Cognitive Development

At times, your 8-year-old may surprise you with his depth of thinking and insightful observation about something he learned or experienced at home or at school. Having regular conversations with your child -- for example at dinnertime or while walking to school -- can be an excellent way to set up a good foundation for communication.

Great Ideas for Easy, Affordable Teacher Gifts

If you're looking for teacher gift ideas, try these simple and inexpensive ways to say thank you to your child's teacher for a job well done.

Your 7 Year Old Child: Cognitive Development

Seven-year-olds typically display an unending thirst for knowledge and will have an innate curiosity and excitement about things in the world. They often ask questions about everything from why the sky is blue to where babies come from. Seven-year-old children also take great pride in sharing their knowledge about things, and often enjoy showing...

Your 6-Year-Old Child Development: Cognitive Development

The phase of 6-year-old child development is an exciting time. For 6-year-old children, cognitive development will step up to a whole new level as they tackle challenging material in school. At age 6, children will begin reading, work on math skills, and learn more about the world around them.

Free Coloring Pages for Older Kids

These sites offer free coloring pages for kids that are simple or detailed for both younger and older grade-school age kids.

Year Round School - What Do you Like, or Not Like, About the Idea of Year...

Parents, teachers, school administrators and education officials have been ramping up the debate over whether or not to extend the school year. What do you think are the pros and cons of year round school? Please share your thoughts here.

5-Year-Old Child Development: Cognitive Development

The cognitive development of a 5-year-old child is action-packed. At age 5, many children begin kindergarten and enter school. In school and at home, 5-year-old child development will also involve learning math, develop reading skills, and becoming more aware about the world.

Kids Reading - What Do You Do to Encourage Reading in Your Kids?

What are some ways you have encouraged a love of books and reading in your kids?

Calming First Day Kindergarten Anxiety

Many children who are starting school experience first day kindergarten anxiety. But parents and teachers can work together to make the transition to starting school easier and help a child overcome kindergarten anxiety.

When Your Child Refuses to Go to School: Dealing With School Refusal

When a child refuses to go to school many parents will wonder what they're doing wrong, but they are not alone. Dealing with school refusal relies on understanding what's behind it and working with a team of professionals to help your child through this tough time.

Interview With the Expert: Dr. Christopher Kearney on School Refusal

School refusal, when a child refuses to go to school, is more than just not wanting to go to school. Dr. Christopher Kearney, Director of the UNLV Child School Refusal and Anxiety Disorders Clinic answers some questions about school refusal.

What is School Refusal?

School refusal is sometimes referred to as school avoidance and used to be known as "school phobia." School refusal is not truancy and it's not the occasional day when your child doesn't want to go to school for a specific reason.

Tips to Ease Back to School Anxiety

After months of summer vacation, it's common for children to experience back-to-school anxiety. Here are some of the things kids typically feel anxious about, and what parents can to do help ease the transition back to a school routine.

Back to School Guide

As summer winds down and fall approaches, parents and kids everywhere prepare for back to school time. Here are some great ideas for how to make back to school time easy, organized, and stress-free.

Back to School Ideas and Tips for Home

When summer break is over, the time to get organized begins. Try these tips and ideas for making the transition to back to school time easier for your family.

Questions to Ask at Parent Teacher Conferences

Without parental involvement, parent teacher conferences are a missed opportunity. There are a number of questions you can ask at a parent teacher conference to elicit information and help to make your child's year more successful.

Difference between School Open House and Parent Teacher Conferences

Is there a difference between a school open house and a parent teacher conference? There sure is. The answer lies in purpose of a school open house and how your conduct should differ than at a parent teacher conference.

Prepare for a Parent Teacher Conference

It may seem that all you need to do to prepare for a parent teacher conference is to show up at the right time, but to get the most out of the experience there's more for you to do. Even if your child is doing well in school, there are questions to ask and things you can do to prepare for your conference ahead of time.

Should You Hold Your Child Out a Year? The Pros and Cons of Academic ...

If your child won't celebrate his fifth birthday until summer or fall, you may be asking yourself whether or not he's ready for kindergarten. The question of academic redshirting (whether you should hold him out a year)may even be on your mind. Learn more about the pros and cons of academic redshirting.

Back to School Tips for the Summer Months

Spreading out back to school responsibilities throughout the summer months can help you feel less frantic and keep those last weeks before kids go back to school calmer, making it easier for your child to return to school with a positive and relaxed attitude.

Back to School Shopping Survival Guide

If you have a child in school, you know that back-to-school shopping can be a stressful experience. There's the expense, the hassle of long lines at the store, the rush to find everything your child needs for his first day. But with these simple smart tips, you can make back-to-school shopping much more efficient, less stressful, and easier on...

7 Ways to Save Money on Back-to-School Shopping

Shopping for back to school can be tough on your wallet. Try these simple strategies for saving money on back to school shopping.

7 Smart, Stylish Green School Supplies

This year, back to school supplies are greener than ever. Here are some of the cutest, smartest, and just downright coolest green gadgets we found for back to school and year-round.

7 Smart, Stylish Green School Supplies

This year, back to school supplies are greener than ever. Here are some of the cutest, smartest, and just downright coolest green gadgets we found for back to school and year-round.

Green Back to School Supplies

Today, we have more choices than ever when it comes to buying green back to school supplies. Parents can find eco-friendly versions of everything from pens and pencils to staplers and notebooks. It's easy to green your back to school shopping with these websites that offer an array of green back to school products you and your kids will love.

Green Back to School Supplies

Today, we have more choices than ever when it comes to buying green back to school supplies. Parents can find eco-friendly versions of everything from pens and pencils to staplers and notebooks. It's easy to green your back to school shopping with these websites that offer an array of green back to school products you and your kids will love.

Green Back to School Supplies

Today, we have more choices than ever when it comes to buying green back to school supplies. Parents can find eco-friendly versions of everything from pens and pencils to staplers and notebooks. It's easy to green your back to school shopping with these websites that offer an array of green back to school products you and your kids will love.

9 Great Homework Habits that Work

From ways to help your kids get more organized to giving them ways to minimize and eliminate homework stress, here are some great tips for good homework habits that work.

Activities to Encourage Pre Reading

Before your child actually begins to read, she'll develop a set of skills known as pre reading skills. These pre reading skills are the signs of early literacy and, though it may look as though your child is merely playing, she is organizing what she knows about books and language and how they work together to for this magical skill known as "reading."

What is Regrouping?

An explanation of regrouping, the math processes you may remember being called "borrowing" and "carrying."

What is Mental Math?

A short definition of the term Mental Math.

How to Prevent and Stop Bullying in School

While bullying may be a more common problem among middle-school and high-school age children, the fact is that school bullying can occur among younger elementary school kids as well. Here's what parents need to know about how to recognize, prevent and stop bullying in schools.

Warning Signs That Your Child May be the Victim of School Bullying

School bullying is a common problem for many children. These warning signs may be an indication that your child is a victim of bullying at school.

4 Ways to Get Your Child Ready for Kindergarten

"How can I get my child ready for kindergarten?" is probably one of the most frequently asked questions on kindergarten registration day. Kindergarten readiness isn't a matter of having one specific skill set, it's a combination of many different skills in many domains, including physical, academic and social/emotional.

What Are Core Words?

A definition of the term Core Words.

Definition of Bullying

What is the definition of bullying? Bullying is intentional aggressive behavior. It can involve children of any age, including younger elementary grade-schoolers and even kindergarteners.

Activities to Improve Fine Motor Skills

Whether your child is working on kindergarten readiness skills or is already in school, tasks requiring fine motor skills can often present difficulties. Here are some fun activities to try at home to build up those motor skills and control.

Kindergarten Readiness Checklist

Here's a short checklist of kindergarten readiness skills to help you gauge how ready your child is for kindergarten.

Fifth Grade Summer Reading List

This fifth grade summer reading list contains a number of Newbery Award winning books with challenging themes as well as a few anthologies for the reader who doesn't want all of her summer reading in one long book.

Summer Learning Activities

A number of fun summer learning activities that can be used to supplement your child's fun and prevent summer learning loss.

Definition of Standards-Based Assessments

A definition of the term Standards-Based Assessment.

Definition of a Rebus

A definition of the term Rebus, as it pertains to children's puzzles and stories.

What is the IDEA, or The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act?

A definition of the IDEA (Individuals with Disabilities Education Act)

Math Games in the Kitchen - Teaching Kids Math in the Kitchen

It's always important to have a few activities and math games up your sleeve to keep your kids brains active. Math skills, in particular, can get rusty without lots of practice and use. Since few children want to sit down and do worksheets or put pencil to paper to get that practice, parents sometimes need to be creative. One of the easiest places to incorporate math is in your kitchen.

Fourth Grade Summer Reading List

By the time your child is ready to enter fourth grade, she not only has a good grasp on the rudimentary skills required for reading and comprehension, but has also been introduced to a number of different genres during third grade reading. Adding poetry, legends and folk tales to your child's fourth grade summer reading list will help her to keep in touch with those genres, making it easier to g...

Definition of IEP - Individualized Education Program

A definition of the term IEP or Individualized Education Program.

Definition of Aptitude Test

A definition of the term Aptitude Test.

Definition of Achievement Tests

A short definition of the term Achievement Test.

Definition of Academic Redshirting

Definition of Academic Redshirting also known as holding out a year or delayed kindergarten entrance.

What Are Early Intervention Services?

A definition of the term Early Intervention Services.

What Is an Ordinal Number?

A definition of the term Ordinal Number.

Ideas for Setting Up a Kids' Homework Area

Setting up a quiet and comfortable kids' homework area is one of the most important things we can do to help our children be successful in school. Having a homework area of their own can help kids focus on their work. Where you set up the homework area isn't as important as the fact that your child is comfortable there. Where did you set up your homework area? See submissions

Strangest, Loveliest, or Most Memorable School Crafts

What is the weirdest, or most beautiful, or in-some-other-way most memorable school craft or art project you've ever received from your child? If you're a parent of a grade-schooler, you know what I'm talking about: That moment when your child proudly produces something he or she made in school that makes you speechless (either from confusion or because you have a lump in your throat).

Defintion of High-Stakes Tests

Definition of high-stakes tests: A single assessment that is given with the knowledge that important decisions or consequences are riding on the result.

A Third Grade Summer Reading List

By the time your child is ready to enter third grade he should have a good handle on silent reading and pacing himself while reading a chapter book. Don't forget, though, that he's still young enough to enjoy read-alouds with zany characters and illustrations that enhance the story.

What Are High-Stakes Tests?

The words "high-stakes tests" can strike fear into the hearts of policymakers and parents alike. When the possibility of federal funding, placement decisions and even high school graduation rides on the results of tests, parents should be wary. Every parent should know a little bit about high-stakes tests in order to understand whether they are being used appropriately in their school district.

A Second Grade Summer Reading List

The summer between first and second grades is a crucial time for your child to keep up on his newly-honed reading skills. From read-aloud stories to early chapter books, there's a large selection of books for a second grade summer reading list.

A First Grade Summer Reading List

The weather's warm, the flip-flops are out and your child has gleefully graduated from kindergarten. Next stop, first grade! While it may be tempting to spend the rest of the summer at the beach, it's important that your emerging reader practice those skills over the summer.

8 Things Parents Should Know Before Making a Teacher Request

Many parents feel that making a request for a specific teacher will help a child have a good school year. However, not all parents know there's more to making that request than just telling the school in which classroom you want your child to be placed. Knowing how teacher choice works can help you make the right decision, both in terms of a teacher and how to approach your request.

Teaching Kids Math During Road Trips

Taking road trips provides some great opportunities to help your kids practice math skills. All along the way, there are math games you can play to not only occupy your child, but to also practice a variety of math skills. With a pencil, some paper and maybe even a calculator, you can take kids math on the road.

What Your Child Will Learn in 3rd Grade

Though curriculum may vary from state to state there are some commonly taught skills and topics that your child will learn about in third grade. Read an overview of what topics your child will learn about in third grade.

5 Things Kindergarten Teachers Wish Parents Knew

Find out 5 things kindergarten teachers wish parents knew about before their children start school. Learn what parents need to know about kindergarten from the teacher perspective.

Questions to Ask Your School About High-Stakes Tests

High-stakes tests are being used in a number of schools. Parents should be asking questions the school about which high-stakes tests are being used and for what purposes.

Kids' Math in the Grocery Store

You have to go shopping anyway, so why not use math in the grocery store? There are a number of different math skills that can be practiced before and during your grocery run.

Math Games Online

Setting your child up with some great math games online is an excellent way to get her to learn math facts while she has fun. These sites offer lots of fun online math games that encourage development of addition, subtraction, and other math facts. As your kids get into these games, you ll see why playing math games online is a great way to...

Today's Kindergarteners are Playing Less, Studying More

Kindergarteners today are facing increasing pressure to perform academically and achieve good scores on tests. At the same time, kindergarteners have less time to play. All this, say educators, can lead to increased stress in children, and may actually hamper development of important skills and growth in kindergarteners.

What You Can Expect Your Child to Learn in Grade School

Grade school is an action-packed time, full of learning and development. From kindergarten to 5th grade, here is a grade-by-grade overview of what you can expect your child to learn.

A Guide to Grade School

The grade school years are an exciting time. Find out what you need to know to help your grade schooler do his or her best and get the most out of grade school.

Best Ways to Meet Your Child's Class School Parents

These days, busy school parents can have a tough time getting to know one another. But since so many school parents have so little time to get together, meeting one another is more important than ever. How can school parents become better acquainted? Here are some simple, easy ideas for meeting school parents.

What is Cyberbullying?

Learn what cyberbullying is and how it is different from other forms of bullying.

Shopping Tips for School Supplies

Grade-schoolers will need a wide variety of school supplies. Here are some great ideas on how to save and simplify to make back-to-school shopping hassle-free and a bit less painful on the wallet.

Summer Strategies for Back to School

Around mid- to late summer, as your thoughts slowly turn to getting your child ready to go back to school, you can begin taking some steps to ensure a smooth transition to school routines. Whether your child is starting kindergarten or going back to grade school, try these ideas to get your family ready to hit the ground running when fall comes.

Summer Reading, Summer Math and Other Activities to Prevent S...

Summer is a time to relax and have fun, but parents should make sure they incorporate some summer learning activities to make sure kids don't experience summer learning loss. What can parents do to encourage summer reading, summer math and other activities to prevent summer brain drain?

What You Can Expect in: 5th Grade

Your 5th grader is about to make the big leap into middle school. As 5th grade science, math, and other subjects become more challenging -- and your increasingly social 5th grader has more demands on her time -- she will need to learn how to balance and organize her time and responsibilities.

What You Can Expect in: 4th Grade

Fourth graders use the skills they've learned in previous grades to find out more about their world. Fourth grade math, reading, and other subjects will be tackled with reference books and internet searches. Learn what else you can expect from fourth grade.

What You Can Expect in: 3rd Grade

Having mastered reading, writing and math, third graders are on an adventure of discovery. Find out what you can expect from third grade reading, math, science and other third grade activities and subjects.

What You Can Expect in: 2nd Grade

Second graders are seasoned pros when it comes to knowing how school works. Here is some of what you can expect to see in your child in the second grade school year.

What You Can Expect in: 1st Grade

Your first grader is becoming more sure of herself and her surroundings. Here's an overview of what you can expect as your child navigates her way through first grade.

What You Can Expect in: Kindergarten

Kindergarten curriculums today are less about play and more about academic achievement. Here's an overview of what you might expect from your child's kindergarten lesson plans this school year.

Insider Tips on Choosing the Best Summer Camp Programs for Your Child

There are many summer camp programs available for children today. How can you choose the best summer day camp or summer sleep-away camp for your child?

How to Set Up a Homework Area for Your Grade-Schooler

Homework is a routine part of the early grades and sometimes even kindergarten. Here are some great ideas for how you can set up a comfortable spot for your young child where he can relax and learn.

How to Raise an Eager Reader

If your early grade-schooler hasn't caught the reading bug yet, you can take steps now to encourage a love of books that'll hopefully last through the years ahead. Here are some ways you can help a reluctant reader.

How to Be an Involved School Parent -- No Matter What Your Schedule

When you're a busy parent, it can be tough to find time to do all the things you want to do, like get more involved in your child's school. But there are ways you can be an involved parent, no matter how much -- or little -- free time you have. Here's how.

5 Great Ways to Thank Teachers

It can be all too easy to take the hard work that teachers do every day for granted. Aside from educating children on academic subjects, teachers also help shape behavior and values -- and give out hugs when kids fall down on the playground. Here are some simple ways parents can show their appreciation for these important adults in their children's lives.

When is Summer School a Good Idea?

If it's recommended your child go to summer school or if you're looking to enroll him in a private program, it's important to take a quick look at the reasoning behind the idea.

Help With 5th Grade Math: The Forgiving Method of Long Division

In fourth and fifth grade, students typically begin to work on long division and often rely on their parents to help with their math homework. The trouble is that math help isn't as easy as it used to be. Take, for example, long division. Many students today are being taught to divide using a new technique known as the Forgiving Method of Long...

Quick Tip: How to Spot Early Signs of a Reading Problem

Not every child who's slow to read has a reading problem. But early intervention is crucial to helping kids with reading problems such as dyslexia. Look for these signs of reading delays, and have your child evaluated to see how you can help.

Dos and Don'ts of Parent-Teacher Communication

Parent-teacher communication plays a big role in helping your child to have a successful academic career. Unfortunately, because teachers spend their time in the classroom with students, it may not always be easy to get in touch with your child's teacher. Knowing some of the Dos and Don'ts of parent-teacher communication can help you make that...

What is a Venn Diagram?

A definition describing what a Venn Diagram is.

What is a Graphic Organizer?

Defining what a graphic organizer is, what it is used for and what forms it can take.

What is Phonemic Awareness?

A definition of the phrase phonemic awareness and how it relates to a child's ability to recognize, hear and manipulate sounds.

Building Phonemic Awareness at Home - A Phonemic Awareness Activity

Phonemic awareness, the ability to hear and manipulate sounds, is one of the most important pre-reading skills a child can have. Phonemic awareness often develops without us actively noticing. Those silly songs your child makes up in which she sounds as though she's mixing up all the beginning sounds is the start of phonemic awareness. When she nonsensically rhymes everything you say, that's pho...

Quick Tip: Is Homework Really Necessary?

Here's a few things you should know about why homework is assigned and how long your child should be spending on it so that you can be your child's best advocate if you think his teacher is piling on too much homework.

5 Things Teachers Wish Parents Would Do to Help With Homework

It's not just your kids who need homework help, teachers need your help too. While you may have prepared at home by setting up a homework space, coming up with a homework plan and a plan to make sure it gets into the teacher's hands, there are a few other, more subtle things that your child's teacher needs you to do for homework to be successful.

What's a Phoneme?

You know what phonemic awareness is, but what is a phoneme?

What Does Reading With Prosody Mean?

You've been told your child reads with prosody. Although you're proud, you're not sure what prosody means. Find out here.

What Are Word Attack Skills?

Fluent readers often have great "word attack" skills. What exactly does that mean?

What Are Decoding Skills?

When it comes to reading you hear a lot about decoding skills. What does decoding really mean?

Reading Problems: The Non-Fluent Reader

If you know what a fluent reader looks like, it seems logical that you'd know the characteristics of a non-fluent reader. However, kids who have reading problems with fluency aren't necessarily the exact opposite of kids who can read fluently.

What is a Fluent Reader?

Though in short a fluent reader is one who demonstrates both oral and silent reading fluency (the ability to easily read mechanically, expressively and with comprehension) there are number of specific characteristics that separate a fluent reader from his less fluent counterpart.

What is Reading Fluency?

Reading fluency isn't all that different from being fluent in a foreign language. Both rely on knowing the language well enough to comprehend and communicate without difficulty. In the case of reading fluency it's written language.

Ways to Improve Reading Fluency

Reading fluency is one of the most important skills for a child to master in the early elementary years. Not only does a fluent reader make the transition to being a fluent writer much more easily than a non-fluent reader , but as students get older reading plays an important role in math, science and social studies, too. Here are some ways to improve reading fluency.

Reading Programs: What is Basal Reading Instruction?

Basal reading instruction differs from a guided reading program in that it uses texts that are written to teach reading, as opposed to using written texts to teach reading. Simply put, this means that the program has been specifically designed to teach skills that have been proven to be helpful in learning to read.

What's a Leveled Reading Program?

Many of us remember being the reading program from when we began school. Although they were supposed to be coded or named in a way that obscured ability, it was still easy to know who was a good reader and who struggled. Teaching reading has changed a lot since those days and what you think of as leveled reading may be very different from the reality.

5 Leveled Reading Programs You Should Know About

When you're trying to decide what books would be best to have on your child's bookshelf, it can be confusing to figure out what book level to purchase. The reason so many parents end up baffled by leveled reading and book levels is because there are many different reading programs that teachers use to organize books.

What is a Benchmark Book?

For many leveled reading programs, students are assessed using a benchmark book. Here's a definition of what a benchmark book is.

What is Whole Language Reading?

A quick look at what the whole language approach to reading is all about.

Definition of a Meaning Emphasis Reading Program

Basal reading programs are usually either meaning emphasis or code emphasis programs. Learn what a meaning emphasis program looks like.

Definition of a Code Emphasis Reading Program

Basal reading programs are usually either code emphasis or meaning emphasis. Learn what code emphasis reading means.

What is a Running Record?

A definition of the running record reading assessment tool.

Math Help: Order of Operations

For many parents, algebra class was a long time ago, making it hard to provide math help in solving those long equations. The most important thing to remember is the order of operations, that is, making sure that your child does the addition, subtraction, multiplication and division in the right order.

What Do Kids Learn in 2nd Grade?

For many kids, 2nd grade marks the beginning of being one of the "big kids" in the school. No longer the youngest or just out of kindergarten, 2nd graders are used to their school environment and ready to take on some serious learning.

What Do Kids Learn in 4th Grade?

Kids learn a number of new things in 4th grade, both socially and academically.

What Do Kids Learn in 5th Grade?

5th grade is a year for to learn how to put all the academic pieces together. In 5th grade,kids are saying goodbye to elementary school and preparing for middle school. Though curriculum varies from school to school, there are some common skills and concepts to learn in 5th grade.

5 Physical Skills That Are Important for Kindergarten

As with every age and stage, your kindergarten child is mastering new physical skills. Although this year she will show a number of new physical skills, some are more important than others to help make her kindergarten year a highly successful learning experience.

What Do Kids Learn in 1st Grade?

Reading takes off, math becomes more complex and science and social studies explore beyond kids' inner circles. State-by-state, lessons and topics may vary, but there are some common topics 1st grade kids will learn this year.

What Do Kids Learn in Kindergarten?

Kindergarten kids work hard and learn a lot in very short time. Not only is kindergarten a year to get used to the routine of school, the idea of being accountable to a new authority figure and to make new friends, but, as kindergarten teachers will tell you, it's a crucial year to build the foundation for learning.

5 Social Skills That Are Important for Kindergarten

Social skills that are important for kindergarten remain just as important during the rest of your child's school career and adult life, but at this age and stage these social emotional skills really begin to take root. Many of these social emotional milestones will make your child's transition to kindergarten much easier.

Ages and Stages: 5 Cognitive Skills That Are Important for Kindergarten

At this age and stage of his life, your kindergarten child is thinking about everything and in a variety of new ways. Though the growth you see in your child this year is extraordinary, there are a few of those cognitive skills that are particularly important for kindergarten.

What Are Concepts About Print?

Simply put,Concepts About Print are the things a student needs to know about books, letters, words, directionality, punctuation and other pre-reading skills in order to be a successful reader. Learn what types of things the Concepts About Print Assessment asks your child to know.

What Are Math Manipulatives?

Math manipulatives are tools teachers use to promote hands-on learning in the classroom and make math more fun. Manipulatives allow students to visualize abstract ideas, solve problems in a concrete way and check their answers.

How Children Learn to Read: From Phonemic Awareness to Fluency:

It may seem as though children learn how to read to read almost overnight, but it's actually a gradual process. There's no one answer to how children learn to read, but there are a number of skills, essential knowledge and characteristics that successful readers share.

First Day of School Pictures and Stories

How did things go on your child's first day of school? Did he or she have any first day of school jitters? Did you? What did your child think about how the first day went? Please share your family's story and any pictures of the big day with other parents!See submissions

Struggling Learner? 4 School-Based Intervention Programs You Should Know About

When you have a struggling learner, it can feel as though you, as a parent, are solely responsible for finding him help and intervention...

What Does ESL Mean?

A definition of the acronym ESL and what it means to teachers.

What is Reading Recovery?

A short definition of the reading intervention program, Reading Recovery.

The Pros and Cons of Year Round School

Would having year round school and longer school days fix school performance concerns and make our nation's kids more globally competitive?

What is Response to Intervention?

A short definition of the early intervention program, Response to Intervention.

What is Your Family's Favorite Children's Book?

We are certainly lucky to be living in a time when there are so many wonderful children's books for kids and parents to enjoy. What is your child...See submissions

Grade by Grade Learning: A Grade by Grade Guide to What Your Child Will Learn

Grade school is an exciting time, packed with learning, growth, development, and fun. Here is an overview of what you can expect your child to learn from kindergarten to fifth grade.

Does Zero Tolerance Work in Schools?

It's a question being asked by parents and professionals all across the nation: Does Zero Tolerance work in schools? In some schools, Zero Tolerance has become synonymous with "we don't want to put up with any sort of nonsense." Such policies impose severe consequences for violations and, in some cases, this is doing more harm than good.

How Does Your Child's Teacher Rate?

Is Your Child's Teacher Making the Grade? With all the talk about whether or not our education system is serving students well, you may be wondering how your child's teacher rates or if she's making the grade. There are a number of ways to determine that, but it's important you are able to define what "making the grade" means to you, as...

Test Taking Tips For Parents

It may be your child doing all the test taking, but you're the one who needs to help him through it. Here are some test taking tips for parents to help you get your child do his best on tests.

Can Zero Tolerance Can Work in Schools?

Not everyone believes that Zero Tolerance policies work in schools, but some think a little flexibility can make Zero Tolerance work.

What Does Zero Tolerance Mean?

In schools, Zero Tolerance refers to the concept that certain offenses will not be tolerated and automatically result in suspension or expulsion. But why do Zero Tolerance policies exist?

Signs of Trouble in Second Grade

For some children second grade is when you begin to see signs of trouble that may require a referral for special education evaluation. If your child shows a number of these signs of trouble, speak with his teacher and/or pediatrician about your concerns.

Signs of Trouble in First Grade

Though some children have more difficulty than others learning in first grade, there are certain signs of trouble that need to be looked at more carefully. If your child shows a number of these signs of trouble, it's time to talk to her first grade teacher and/or pediatrician about further evaluation.

Signs of Trouble in Kindergarten

Many teachers may take a "wait and see" approach to student learning in kindergarten, there are a number of indicators that can be signs of trouble in kindergarten. Learn what might be signs that your child is having trouble.

1st Grade Math: What is a Fact Family?

Your child probably has 1st grade math homework this year and may even ask you to help with it. One of the more common concepts taught in first grade math is the concept of a fact family (or fact families). If you've never heard of this, it's actually quite easy.

Signs of Trouble in Third Grade

Third grade is a year of tremendous growth and learning, especially in math and reading. If your child is showing signs of trouble in third grade, it should be addressed as soon as possible. Speak with your child's teacher and/or pediatrician if she shows some of these signs of trouble.

Signs of Trouble in Fifth Grade

For many students, fifth grade is the year to prepare for middle school. Signs of trouble in fifth grade often revolve around goal-setting and peer relationships. If your child is showing some the following signs of trouble, it's time to speak with her teacher, guidance counselor or pediatrician about some extra support.

Signs of Trouble in Fourth Grade

Fourth grade is a year when children are expected to take on new challenges and it's important to be on the lookout for signs of trouble, academically and socially. Signs of trouble in fourth grade vary, but if your child is consistently showing some of these signs, it's a good idea to check in with his teacher or pediatrician for a closer look.

Grade-by- Grade Guide to Signs of Trouble With Learning K-5



If you're worried whether or not your child might be having trouble in school this year, it's a good idea to check out what some of those signs of trouble are for each grade. From kindergarten to fifth grade, here's a comprehensive list of warning signs. Simply click on each grade to see what you should be on the lookout for.

Test Taking Tips for Students

There are a number of test taking tips for parents, providing information about how to make the experience easier for your child, but there are also some test taking tips specifically for students. Share these tips to make the actual taking of the test less stressful.

What Do Report Card Comments Really Mean?

Ideally, your child's teacher will say exactly what she means, but politeness sometimes masks the true meaning, making it harder to know what those report card comments really mean. Here are some commonly used report card phrases decoded.

How to Deal With a Bad Report Card

When your child brings home a bad report card, your first instinct might be to yell and punish, but a bad report card really isn't the end of the world. Knowing how to deal with a bad report card can take some finesse.

The Top Worst Gifts for Teachers

They say it's the thought that counts for gifts and it's just as important to give some thought to what would be the worst gift for a teacher. Though teachers are appreciative of their student's gifts, there are some that are worse than others.

10 Gifts Teachers Really Want for the Holidays - Great Gifts for Teachers...



It's hard to come up with just the right holiday gift for your child's teacher. This year try to avoid the apple-themed knick-knacks or #1 Teacher t-shirts and give one of the gifts teachers really want for the holidays!

A Parent's Guide to First Grade

This parent's guide to first grade will fill you in about first grade reading, first grade math and give you ways to guide your child through the first grade year.

15 Questions to Ask Your Child About School

The trick to getting more then just a "Good" is to ask your child questions about his day at school that can't be answered with a monosyllable. Try one of these more open-ended questions as a way to get your child to talk about school.

A Parent's Guide to Fourth Grade

In fourth grade, your child's social life begins to get more complicated and the academic demands are more as well. From tips on dealing with cliques to how to deal with your child's suddenly too-heavy backpack, this is your parent's guide to fourth grade.

A Parent's Guide to Third Grade

A parent's guide to third grade fills you in about third grade reading, third grade math and give you ways to guide your child through the increasing social challenges of the third grade year.

What is Inventive Spelling?

Typically, inventive spelling is used by students who are just learning to put sounds together to make words. In fact, you may hear teachers who promote inventive spelling say "Write the sounds you hear."

Hand Dominance - What is a Dominant Hand?

If your child's teacher notes he hasn't chosen a dominant hand yet, you may wonder what that means. Hand dominance isn't something you can decide for him.

What Are Cognitive Skills? A Definition of Cognitive Skills

What are cognitive skills? At each age, your child reaches cognitive skill milestones. Learn what cognitive skills are.

Math Skills: What is Skip Counting?

Skip counting doesn't refer to counting while you skip, it's actually a skill that will help with learning number patterns and multiplication facts.

Why Does My Child Have to Give Valentine's Day Cards to Everyone?

If you're like many parents, you're groaning and wondering why your child has to give Valentine's Day cards to everyone in the class. Here's the answer to that question and five more common questions about Valentine's Day at school.

A Grade-by-Grade Guide to Elementary School

Elementary school is a time when it's hard to keep up with all the growth and changes your child is showing. You send her off to kindergarten unsure as whether she's ready (or you are) and watch as she learns to read, makes friends and begins to add and subtract. Over the next five years, your child's academic and social life will begin to...

A Parent's Guide to Fifth Grade

In fifth grade, your child is starting to look toward middle school.From tips on dealing with school refusal to warning signs that your child is being bullied to information about fifth grade math, reading and science, this is your parent's guide to fifth grade.

What is Environmental Print?

Few children need to be able to read to recognize that the Golden Arches means a McDonald's. That's because they are able to recognize environmental print. Environmental print is all around us.

A Parent's Guide to Second Grade

This parent's guide to second grade will fill you in about second grade reading, second grade math and give you ways to guide your child through the second grade year.

A Parent's Guide to Kindergarten

The parent's guide to making kindergarten successful.From kindergarten readiness to what they will learn in kindergarten, this parent's guide will help the transition.

100 Ideas for 100th Day of School Collections

On the 100th day of school, many students are asked to bring in 100th day collections made up of 100 items. Here are 100 ideas, some big and some small, for your child's 100th day collection.

Standards Based Report Cards

Most parents are used to seeing letter grades on report cards, but a lot of schools are turning toward standards based report cards. Learn how to decipher a standards based report card.

Quick Tip: How to Spot Early Signs of a Reading Problem

Not every child who's slow to read has a problem. But early intervention is crucial to helping kids with reading problems such as dyslexia. Look for these signs of reading delays, and have your child evaluated to see how you can help.

What is Single Sex Education?

There's been a lot of conversation about public schools moving to single-sex education. But what is single-sex education? Learn the definition of single-gender education.

Are Single Sex Classrooms Better for Boys? Single Sex Education Advantages

The advantages of single sex education for boys aren't as clearly defined by research as the advantages for girls, but there are definitely advantages to all boy classrooms. That's because boys and girls may learn better when they are taught in a more gender-specific manner.

The 5 Types of Science Fair Projects - Choosing a Type of Science Fair Project

Helping your child with his science fair project is a lot easier once he decides what type of science project head like to do. There are 5 types of science projects to choose from.

Science Fair Topic Ideas - 7 Categories of Science Fair Topic Ideas

Though the Intel International Science and Engineering fair for high school students recognizes 14 categories of science fair topic ideas, elementary school students science fair topic ideas usually fall into one of seven main categories. A brief description of each of those categories might help your child decide what type of project he d...

Parent's Guide to Science Fair Project Terms

If you're confused looking at all scientific terms on your child's science fair project directions, you're not alone. Here's your parent's guide to science fair project terms.

The Steps of the Scientific Method - A Parents Guide for Science Fair ...

Your child has chosen a science fair project that she is excited about, but she needs your help figuring out how to use the steps of the scientific method. If youre like many parents, its been awhile since youve had to use the scientific method. Heres a quick rundown of the six steps.

Science Fair Project Tips for Parents: Science Fair Projects Do's and ...

The science fair is coming and your child has yet to choose a science fair project. Do you choose it for her? Here are some tips for parents to help you figure out the do's and don'ts of how much and what kind of help you should provide with the science fair project.

Science Fair: Tips for Designing an Experiment

Once your child has settled on an idea for the science fair, asked a question and created a hypothesis, it's time to design an experiment using the scientific method. Here are tips for your child to keep in mind when he's designing an experiment.

Single Sex Education Advantages - 3 Advantages of Single Sex Education for Girls

As the number of public schools offering single sex classrooms increases, many parents of girls are wondering if it really makes a difference. What are the advantages of single sex education for girls?

What Makes a Science Fair Project Good?

Your child has chosen a science fair project and even though you want her science fair project to be good, you're available but not too involved. You may wonder though: What makes a science fair project good?

Science Fair: Parent's Guide to Science Fair Projects

From helping your child pick a science fair project to understanding the scientific method to brushing up on those scientific terms, we've got you covered with this parent's guide to science fair projects.

Science Fair Topic Ideas in Astronomy

From navigating by the stars to looking at the relationship between the Earth's orbit and the seasons to investigating the planets, constellations and other mysteries of the galaxy, here are some science fair project ideas in astronomy.

Science Fair Topic Ideas in Electricity & Electronics

Electricity and electronics is a lot of fun to experiment with. After all, when else can your child give people static shocks and get away with it or try to see if lemons make a light bulb light up? Here are some science fair topic ideas in electricity and electronics.

Show Off Your Child's Science Fair Project!

Do you have photos of your child's science fair project? We'd love for you to share them! Whether it's a kindergartener's first foray into the world of science exploration or an older child's sophisticated model or experiment, show off your child's creation here. See submissions See submissions

Science Fair Topic Ideas in Physics

For many students, physics is one of the more exciting of the seven categories of science fair projects. From gravity to action and reaction, here are some science fair topic ideas in physics.

Science Fair Topic Ideas in Engineering

Engineering encompasses everything from design to building to computer and social engineering. Here are some science fair topic ideas in engineering.

Science Fair Topic Ideas in Biology

One of the seven categories of science fair projects that most projects fall into is biology. However, biology is a very large science, making it hard to narrow down an idea. Here are some science fair topic ideas in biology.

Science Fair Topic Ideas - Chemistry

One of the seven categories of science fair projects that most projects fall into is chemistry. Chemistry is a very large and exciting science, making it hard to narrow down an idea. Here are some cool science fair topic ideas in chemistry.

Physical Skills That Are Important for 3rd Grade

In third grade students begin to learn about the consequences of the choices they make, both emotionally and physically. Some of the physical skills that are important for third grade are helpful in connecting the importance of exercise to fitness and overall health.

Physical Skills That Are Important for 2nd Grade

Second grade is a year of great growth in the realm of personal accountability and independence. The physical skills that are important for second grade reflect this growth.

Physical Skills That Are Important for 1st Grade

The physical skill that are important for first grade are a mix of fine and gross motor skills and have implications not only for classroom learning, but for social relationships as well.

Science Fair Topic Ideas in Earth Science

One of the seven categories of science fair projects that most projects fall into is earth science. Among other things, earth science encompasses weather, geology and environmental science. Here are some science fair topic ideas in earth science.

Science Fair Science - What to Do For a Science Fair Project

Often children are stumped by science fair science, which is slightly different than everyday science. With a science fair project, students have to choose a topic and a type of science fair project all by themselves. Though he may know that he likes electricity or is interested in the stars, your child may be stuck in figuring out where to go from there.

Cognitive Skills That Are Important for 2nd Grade

In second grade you can expect your child to start some serious learning. Your child is able to attend to things for a longer period of time and is beginning to develop a number of more sophisticated cognitive skills that are important for the second grade curriculum.

Social Skills That Are Important for 2nd Grade

Social skills that are important for second grade are those that show your child is gaining a sense of independence and self-awareness. As the academic expectations for your child ask her to think more for herself, her ability to feel confident and capable will play a big role in a successful second grade year.

Are Bubble or Scantron Answer Sheets Developmentally Appropriate?

A second grade teacher who was instructed to use scantron sheets for a benchmark math test asked us: Is it developmentally appropriate practice to use scantron sheets in 2nd grade?

How to Write Expository Writing

Expository writing may be one of the more difficult types of writing for your child to learn. Expository writing is used to describe, explain, define or otherwise inform a reader about a specific subject.

How to Write Narrative Writing

Your child will spend a significant amount of time learning how to write narrative writing pieces. Quite simply, narrative writing tells a story.

How to Write Descriptive Writing

Descriptive writing is one of the four most common types of writing. Descriptive writing creates a vivid picture of an idea, place, person or event. It is much like painting with words.

How to Write Persuasive Writing

One of the four types of writing your will need to learn how to write is persuasive writing. Persuasive writing is used to express an opinion or take a position on an issue.

The Four Types of Writing

There are four types of writing your child will be expected to use as his classes become more writing-intensive. Here are explanations of the common types of writing styles.

Writing a Paragraph: Hamburger Writing

Writing a paragraph can be as easy as eating dinner. That's because there's a quick and easy graphic organizer that outlines the components of a paragraph as if they were parts of a hamburger. Here's how hamburger writing works.

Kindergarten Skills for School Success

Your 5-year-old is experiencing an explosion of skills as she enters kindergarten, skills that are important for her success in school. As she hits her many physical, cognitive, social and emotional milestones, there are a number of them that her kindergarten teacher will be looking for.

1st Grade Skills for School Success

Last year, your child learned a number of things in kindergarten that prepared him to move on to the more academically challenging first grade classroom. It's not only the things he learned that will help with school success, it's his development of 1st grade skills in the social, physical and cognitive realm that's important, too.

2nd Grade Skills for School Success

In first grade your child was introduced to a more academically challenging curriculum. This year the trend continues, asking him to rely on the development 2nd grade skills in the social, physical and cognitive realm to help him think work more independently.

3rd Grade Skills for School Success

In third grade, children who are steadily becoming more open to the abstract thinking. The 3rd grade skills in the social, physical and cognitively the end of third grade your child will have gained the skills to complete mental math, work with fractions, estimate, interpret graphs and predict probability and outcomes.

Value Added Analysis for Teacher Ratings - Should Teachers be Rated Using...

A value added analysis model of teacher rating is a way to look at teacher ratings from a more statistical viewpoint. Do you think this is a good idea?

What is a Value Added Analysis Teacher Rating?

There has also been a push to figure out a way to look at teacher ratings from a more statistical viewpoint. One way of doing this is by using a value added analysis model of teacher rating.

Social Skills That Are Important for 4th Grade

The social skills and social emotional milestones that are important for fourth graders to have are those that help him discover who he is, who his friends are and what he thinks about the world around him.

Cognitive Skills That Are Important for 4th Grade

There are a number of cognitive skills that are important for your fourth grader to have to be successful this year, many of them related to time management and a more sophisticated understanding of language.

4th Grade Skills for School Success

Fourth grade is a year of change for students. They've moved on from the primary elementary grade to the intermediate grades and are faced with a number of social, physical and cognitive challenges related to that move and simply being older. In order to meet those challenges, there are some specific-to-fourth grade skills for school success.

Tips for School Success

Communicating with your child's teacher and understanding his report and grading system are only a few tips for school success. Here are 8 quick tips for s good school year.

Physical Skills That Are Important for 5th Grade

The physical skills important for fifth grade revolve around better gross and fine motor control and the ability to plan movement.

Cognitive Skills That Are Important for 5th Grade

There are a number of cognitive skills that are important for your fifth grader to have in order to navigate the touch fifth grade year, including the abilities to use deductive reasoning and to think more abstractly.

Social Skills That Are Important for 5th Grade

The social skills that are important for fifth grade are related to independence, dependability and understanding the nuances to the concept of "fairness."

5th Grade Skills for School Success

Fifth grade can be a scary year of transition for a lot of students. In this unsettling year, there are a number of social, cognitive and physical skills that can help lead to school success.

Developmental Milestones for Elementary School

It's not just babies who hit developmental milestones, there are developmental milestones for elementary school age children, too. With each year of school, your child faces new challenges that require her to continually acquire new sets of cognitive, physical and social-emotional skills.

How Do I Deal With a Difficult Teacher?

There are a number of ways a teacher can be difficult to deal with, some of which can be handled easily and others of which will need some more work on your part to resolve.

Is Your Kid Bored at School?

When your child is bored at school, you may dismiss her claims or call the teacher to tell her your child isn't being challenged. What you really should do is ask some questions, starting with the big one: Is my child bored at school?

4 Reasons Kids Are Bored at School

For some children, being bored at school is an ongoing complaint, one that causes real distress and can even lead to school avoidance or school refusal behaviors. There are at least 4 reasons to consider when your child is bored at school.

Learning Multiplication: Rote Memorization or Multiplication Tricks?

Rote memorization isn't always the best way to learn multiplication. Sometimes children needs multiplication tricks to help them make sense out of why the times tables work.

Help With Fractions: A Parent's Guide

You may know that a fraction is a part of a whole, but do you know how to reduce, multiply, add, divide or subtract fractions? If not, it's hard to give your child help with fraction homework. Learn more about fractions in this parent's guide.

Help With Division: A Parent's Guide

There are a number of different symbols for division, rules for division and ways of understanding division. Help your child by brushing with this parent's guide to division.

Math Glossary: Fractions, Decimals and Operations

Helping your child with fractions, decimals and other operations is easier if you have glossary of what the terminology means.

Math Glossary: Numbers, Geometry and Graphing

Knowing the math terms used in your child's homework can make it easier to help. Here's math glossary for common terms used with numbers, geometry and graphing.

What's an IQ? Questions About IQ Testing

IQ testing is used by schools to help make determinations for special education and gifted/talented programs, but many parents have questions about IQ testing. Here are answers to common questions.

Getting Involved in Your Child's Education

When your child goes to school, forging a good home-school connection can help you get involved in his education and keep your job as his first teacher.

15 New Ways to Practice Spelling Words at Home

If your child isn't expected to spell her words out loud for the test, why practice spelling words that way at home? Try some creative ways to practice those spelling words.

Rules for Spelling Words: A Parent's Guide

You can solve your child's problem of not being able to look up a spelling word in the dictionary because he don't know how to spell the word by learning some of the basic rules for spelling.

Spelling and Grammar Check for Parents

It can be hard to help your child with homework if you're not up on your own spelling and grammar. Learn (again) about parts of speech, verb tenses, blends and more in this spelling and grammar check for parents.

Help With Shapes, Angles and Polygons: A Parent's Guide

It's hard to help with shapes, angles, polygons and other elementary geometry topics if you can't remember what everything looks like. Here's an illustrated parent's guide to early geometry.

Math Help for Parents

Helping your child with math is hard if you're not so sure about your own math skills. Brushing up on your own math skills can be the best math help for parents.

Why Are Math Skills Suffering?

Math skills are suffering in many students across the nation. Test scores show the lack of skills, but why is it happening and what's being done to remedy it?

Singapore Math Pros and Cons

The pros and cons of Singapore Math make it easy to see why there are both educators who advocate for the method and educators who are hesitant to use it in the classroom.

What is Singapore Math?

Singapore Math is a general term used in U.S. classrooms to describe math teaching strategies and materials modeled after the math curriculum used in Singaporean schools. If you're wondering about the philosophy and history of the Singapore Math method, here's some important information.

A Close Look at the Singapore Math Method

The Singapore Math Method is gaining popularity and is starting to be used in more schools across the nation. A close look at the philosophy and framework of Singapore Math can make it easier to understand what's going on in your child's classroom.

Math in Everyday Life: Lemonade Stands

Most children want to have a lemonade stand to make money, but it's also a handy math in everyday life activity.

Math in Everyday Life: Wish Lists and Making it Fair

You use math in everyday life, why not help your child's math skills by showing her some of the math in daily life? Using a budget to get what she wants and sharing equally are two very common everyday math problems.

Math in Everyday Life: Carpools and Cleaning

You can reinforce math skills by showing your child that there's math in everyday life. Here are some math activities to use during carpools and room cleaning.

How Big a Backpack? A Back to School Activity

Figuring out how big a backpack your child needs for school can be tough. Use this back to school activity to help him build a backpack frame to help pick out a backpack size.

What is JUMP Math?

The JUMP Math program has been very successful in improving math scores. It uses a guided inquiry approach to learning math.

A Closer Look at the JUMP Math Method

Dr. John Mighton, founder of JUMP Math, believes all students can be successful in math. JUMP Math provides that opportunity with some unique features and ways of teaching.

Are JUMP and Singapore Math Just Weapons in the Math Wars?

The math wars are pitting basic math programs against reform math programs. Are JUMP Math and Singapore Math weapons in the math wars or the flag of truce?

5 Things To Tell Your Child's Teacher

Even if your child isn't starting school for the first time, there are some things the teacher should know. Here are five things to tell your child's teacher in order to make the year more successful.

Teaching Kids About Debt

The questions kids ask about events like the 2011 debt crisis provide a number of real life ways for teaching kids about debt.

What Does Developmentally Appropriate Mean?

When you're involved in your child's education, it's likely that you've heard the phrase "developmentally appropriate" used in conversation. It's a frequently used phrase and a frequently talked about concept amongst educators. As a parent you may wonder: What does developmentally appropriate mean?

Social Skills That Are Important for 1st Grade

The social skills that are important for first grade continue to be the ability to communicate his needs and interact with adults other than his parents,but this year many of his social emotional milestones revolve around his ability to get along with other children, in groups and to see other points of view.

Cognitive Skills That Are Important for First Grade

As your six year old begins first grade, his ability to learn and process information is expanding rapidly. Some of those newly acquired cognitive skills are very important for first grade learning.

Physical Skills That Are Important for 4th Grade

You can expect your fourth grader to start learning how to integrate his social and academic lives. Physical skills that are important for fourth grade include those that make it easier for your child to keep up with his peers on the playground, in the classroom and on the sports fields.

Cognitive Skills That Are Important for 3rd Grade

Third grade is a year of growth spurts: physically, academically and socially. The cognitive skills that are important for third grade are those that help your child move from a very concrete learner to a more abstract thinker, able to apply ideas in a number of different situations.

Social Skills That Are Important for 3rd Grade

The social skills that are important for third grade relate not only to friendships and peer pressure, but also to the more in-depth learning encounters your child will have this year.

What is Social Studies?

You know what your child learns in math class, but what is Social Studies class about? Here are descriptions of the themes of the National Social Studies Standards.

7 Everyday Math Activities at Home

The nice thing about math is that opportunities to explore real life math pop up every day, everywhere. Here are 7 opportunities to incorporate everyday math activities at home.

Is it Busy Work or Homework?

Sometimes it's hard to tell whether what's coming home from school is busy work or homework. In order to know, you need to know what the purpose of homework is and what busy work is designed to do.

4 Homework Excuses That Won't Work

Homework excuses range from boring to hilarious. There are some excuses you might think are valid (because they're true), but won't work with teachers. Here are four homework excuses to avoid giving your child's teacher.

The ABC's of Homework

There's a lot you need to know about homework. The ABC's of homework provides 26 ways to help alleviate homework hassles.

What Are the Common Core State Standards?

The Common Core State Standards have been adopted by nearly all of the states, leaving many people wondering what the Common Core State Standards are. Learn more about the standards and who has adopted them.

Is Your Child Getting a STEM Education? Science, Technology, Engineering, Math

Whether or not your child is getting a STEM effective education is an important factor in his future interest in science, technology, engineering and math. Find out what STEM education is and how to know if your child's classroom is providing it.

Why Class Size Matters

Does class size really matter when it comes to your child's education? Hear what the experts have to say about smaller classes and achievement.

Do Smaller Classes Work Better?

Knowing if smaller classes work better for students depends on what the definition of "work" is. There are some short term benefits, but smaller classes work really well in the long run.

7 Reputable Sites for Homework Help Online

There's a lot of information out there, but it's not always easy to know which sites are reputable and provide valid information. Here are 7 reputable sites for homework help online.

How Much is Too Much Homework?

As you watch the books pile up on the table and your child struggle through his assignments, you may start to wonder how much homework is too much?

From Bullies to Boredom: Issues in Education

Preparing for school isn't just for kids, it's for parents, too. From bullies to boredom to class size, knowing about the hot topics and issues in education is important for parents.

10 Supplies Your Child's Teacher Needs (But Might Not Tell You)

You may have thought about the extra crayons and craft supplies, but here are 10 school supplies your child's teachers needs but might not tell you about.

Parents and Teachers Working Together

Parents and teachers working together as partners is the best way to help kids. What are the keys to building that relationship?

What is the Family Engagement in Education Act?

Parental involvement in a child's education is good for everybody:child, parents and school. The Family Engagement in Education Act is designed to give schools some tools to build family-school partnerships.

Answers to Homework Questions and Complaints

The word "homework" always produces questions and complaints, from students and parents alike. Maybe you're wondering how much is too much homework, how to set up a homework space or whether homework should be given at all. Well, here are some answers to those homework questions and complaints.

Signs of Common Learning Disabilities

If you think your child may be one of the 2.6 million children who have a learning disability, check out some of the signs of common learning disabilities.

Types of Learning Disabilities

There are different types of learning disabilities, which are expressed by difficulty in certain skill sets. Some learning disabilities affect multiple skills sets, meaning that students can have trouble with the skills needed for reading, writing, math and language instead of just one area.

What Are Learning Disabilities?

Learning disabilities may not be the first thing you think of when your child is having trouble with school,especially if you subscribe to the common misconception that children with learning disabilities have below average intelligence. Learn more about learning disabilities.

10-Year-Old Child Development: Cognitive Development

What's going on in the mind of your 10-year-old child? Here's a fascinating look at the bustle of activity and development.

What is the 100th Day of School?

What is the 100th day of school? Well, it's literally the 100th day of the school year, but the 100th day of school is also a great way for teachers to celebrate the various mathematical concepts that can be taught using the number 100.

What Parents Should Know About Learning Disabilities and Processing Information

Learning disabilities are neurological differences in the way information is processed in the brain, creating problems with learning. Knowing how information processing works can make it easier to spot a problem with your child's learning.