New fears and challenges, budding rebellion, curiosity about bodies --- the grade-schooler stage is an action-packed smorgasbord of physical and emotional development.

Teaching Kids Kindness

Why teaching kids kindness is important in today's social sharing world and how parents can raise nice children.

Child Development, Age-by-Age

School-age children are experiencing an explosion of growth, physically, cognitively, emotionally, and socially. Here is your guide to your child's development from ages 5 to 10.

Child Development: Your Ten-Year-Old Child

At this stage of development, 10-year-old children are experiencing many changes in all aspects of their lives. Here's an overview of what you might expect to see in a 10-year-old's physical, social, cognitive, and other development.

Your 10 Year Old Child: Emotional Development

Your 10-year-old child is on the cusp of many changes, and that can have an effect on his emotions. Here's a look at what you can expect in your child's emotional development at this age.

Your 10-Year-Old Child: Physical Development

How does your ten-year-old child grow? Here is a look into what you can expect to see in your child's physical development this year.

Your 10-Year-Old-Child - Behavior and Daily Routines

An overview of what's going on in a typical 10-year-old child's life. As they straddle young childhood and adolescence, 10-year-old children are going through many changes and transformations. Here's a look at what you can expect to see in a typical 10-year-old child's development.

Child Development: Your Nine-Year-Old Child

As they near adolescence, 9-year-old children are approaching a major phase of child development - the preteen and teenage years. Here are some of the physical, emotional, intellectual and social developments you can expect to see in a typical 9-year-old child.

Your 9-Year-Old Child: Emotional Development

Nine-year-old children are becoming more independent and emotionally mature. But they will still need the emotional support from family, routines, and friends. Here is a picture of what you can expect in your child's emotional development at age 9.

Your 9-Year-Old Child: Physical Development

Nine-year-old children stand on the cusp of adolescence. Here is an overall picture of what you can expect in your child's growth and physical development this year.

9-Year-Old Child Development: Behavior and Daily Routines

Nine-year-old children are becoming more independent, and are expressing more interest in things and people beyond their immediate family. But they are still looking to parents to get cues as they develop their own preferences and routines.

Book Review: Cinderella Ate My Daughter

New York Times Magazine contributing writer Peggy Orenstein explores the genesis of this "pinking" of girls in her well-written and thoughtful book, Cinderella Ate My Daughter: Dispatches from the Front Lines of the New Girlie-Girl Culture. She explores the issue of whether or not the princesses and tiaras that permeate everything from TV,...

Child Development: Your Six-Year-Old Child

Six-year-old children are starting a big milestone -- entering school. Children this age are experiencing independence and the excitement and insecurity that can come with being a big kid as they increasingly spend more time away from home.

Child Development: Your Five-Year-Old Child

For a 5 year old, there will be many steps forward as well as steps back as she navigates new challenges and broadens her world. Many 5-year-olds begin kindergarten begin to spend more time away from the familiarity of home. At this age, children will increasingly express a desire to be independent, but will still want and need cuddles and...

Your 8-Year-Old Child: Emotional Development

Emotional development for 8 year-old children is at a deeper level. Eight-year-olds are capable of more sophisticated and complex emotions. They are often a study of moody contradictions, being cheerful one minute and upset the next.

Child Development: Your Eight Year Old Child

Eight-year-olds are becoming more confident about themselves and who they are. At age 8, they will likely have developed some interests and hobbies, and will know what they like and don't like. At the same time, they are learning more about the world at large, and are also better able to navigate social relationships with others with less...

8-Year-Old Child Development: Behavior and Daily Routines

Eight-year-olds are developing their own unique interests and preferences, and are looking to parents for guidance and examples. That's why it's important for parents and other adults in an 8-year-old child's life to model positive behavior and healthy habits and routines.

Your 8-Year-Old Child: Physical Development

For 8-year-olds, this period of physical development continues to be one of refinement rather than major, noticeable changes. If your child has athletic ability, this will be the time when you see her skills shine, as her coordination, muscle control and overall physical development become more accurate and precise.

What Do You Love Best About Your Child as a 7 Year Old

For 7-year-olds, independence is not just about dressing themselves or brushing their own teeth anymore. Many 7-year-olds may enjoy making significant decisions, such as choosing extracurricular activities or taking on more responsibilities at school and at home. They are in a transitional phase, no longer a wide-eyed kindergartener but not yet...

Child Development: Your Seven-Year-Old Child

For 7-year-olds, independence is not just about dressing themselves or brushing their own teeth anymore. Many 7-year-olds may enjoy making significant decisions, such as choosing extracurricular activities or taking on more responsibilities at school and at home. They are in a transitional phase, no longer a wide-eyed kindergartener but not yet...

7-Year-Old Child Development: Behavior and Daily Routines

For parents of 7-year-old children, parenting is more about guidance and reminders than close supervision. Seven-year-old children are becoming much more adept at taking care of themselves -- not only in those day-to-day routines such as bathing, getting dressed and even getting themselves a bowl of cereal in the morning but also in relation to...

Your 7 Year Old Child: Emotional Development

Emotional maturity for 7-year-olds is a far cry from what it was during preschool or kindergarten years. For one thing, 7-year-olds are better able to handle transitions and last-minute changes. While they may not yet be able to exercise the self-control that, say, a 10- or 12-year-old can, 7-year-olds can certainly better tolerate going with...

Your 7-Year-Old Child: Physical Development

For 7-year-old children, motor skills and coordination will continue to become refined. Gone will be the awkward movements of their toddler and preschool years, replaced by increasingly refined motor skills, balances, and coordination.

What Do You Love Best About Your Child as a 6-Year-Old

What are your best or most unforgettable memories of your child as a 6-year-old? What do or did you like the most about this phase of your child's life? What did you like the least?

Your 6-Year-Old Child: Behavior and Daily Routines

As 6-year-olds increasingly move toward independence, engaging in activities without mom and dad and socializing with friends, such as at birthday parties and play dates, routines at home will take on a greater significance. Six-year-old children, like adults, are individuals, with distinct interests, abilities, and experiences. While it's not...

6 Years Old - Child Physical Development

Six-year-old children are individuals, with their own unique physical and motor skills. As such, you can expect to see a natural variation in athleticism, coordination, and affinity for sports and other physical activities. At age 6, children will also grow at different rates, and it is normal to see a range in height and physical growth at this...

Your 6 Year Old Child: Emotional Development

A 6-year-old child will have her foot more firmly in the big-kid years. At the same time, she will still experience the insecurity that comes from stepping more into the big wide world without the constant comfort of mom and dad. As she increasingly experiences school, play dates, birthday parties, and other activities without a parent, she may...

How Much Should Adults and Children Sleep?

How much should adults and children sleep? The amount of sleep we should get each night depends on your age and individual needs. Some people may naturally need less sleep than others, and be perfectly health, happy, and productive on fewer hours of sleep. And as we get older, we naturally need fewer hours of sleep at night.

Your 5 Year Old Child: Emotional Development

Five-year-old children may be developing more self control, and may be acquiring the tools to regulate their emotions. But 5 year old development is a phase marked by steps forward and steps back. At age 5, children are also still not fully out of the tantrums and emotional meltdowns phase of the preschool years. Here is an overview of what you...

5 Years Old - Child Physical Development

The rate of physical development in school-age children can vary. While one child might experience a growth spurt at age 5, another may suddenly grow taller years later. Coordination and muscle control can also develop at different speeds. Here, though, is a general picture of what you may see in the physical development and motor skills of a...

Your 5 Year Old Child: Behavior and Daily Routines

Five-year-old child behavior and routines are characterized by significant transitions. Many 5-year-old children begin kindergarten, and will spend more time away from home will make the comfort of home. At age 5, routines at home will take on more importance as kids deal with these changes. Here is a general, overall picture of 5-year-old child...

10 Tips on Talking to Your Grade-Schooler about Death

One of the toughest things to discuss with a child is the subject of death. But as your grade-school age child gets older, it's increasingly more likely that she will have to deal with the loss of a loved one, whether it's the death of a grandparent, another family member, or even a pet.

Guide to Your Growing Grade-Schooler

What can your school-age child do and when can he do it? Here's a general guideline of his physical milestones.

When Should Puberty Start?

For many children, especially girls, puberty can start as early as age 9. About.com's resident pediatrician, Vincent Iannelli, MD, addresses the question of early puberty.

Child Development: Your 7-Year-Old

What can your child do at age 7? What is he interested in and where is he emotionally and physically? Get the scoop on a typical 7-year-old's abilities and interests.

Child Development: Your 8-Year-Old

What can your child do at age 8? What is he interested in and where is he emotionally and physically? Get the scoop on a typical 8-year-old's abilities and interests.

Child Development: Your 9-Year-Old

What can your child do at age 9? What is he interested in and where is he emotionally and physically? Get the scoop on a typical 9-year-old's abilities and interests.

Physical Skills That Are Important for 3rd Grade

In third grade students begin to learn about the consequences of the choices they make, both emotionally and physically. Some of the physical skills that are important for third grade are helpful in connecting the importance of exercise to fitness and overall health.

Physical Skills That Are Important for 2nd Grade

Second grade is a year of great growth in the realm of personal accountability and independence. The physical skills that are important for second grade reflect this growth.

Physical Skills That Are Important for 1st Grade

The physical skill that are important for first grade are a mix of fine and gross motor skills and have implications not only for classroom learning, but for social relationships as well.

10-Year-Old Child Development: Cognitive Development

What's going on in the mind of your 10-year-old child? Here's a fascinating look at the bustle of activity and development.