From contagious illnesses to bedwetting to preventing accidents, essential information you need to keep your grade-schooler healthy, happy, and safe.

Chronic Lack of Sleep Can Lead to Obesity in Kids

Why chronic lack of sleep and bad sleep habits can increase a child's risk for obesity and illnesses such as heart disease and diabetes, and what parents can do to set up good sleep habits.

What to Do When a Child Won't Go to Bed

Why your child won't go to bed and how to help him go to sleep and stay asleep.

School Safety Tips

Find out how you can protect your child against dangers such as child predators and school bullying, and learn how to teach your child to be safe around school buses and while walking to and from school.

Health & Development

What parents need to know about child health and child development.

School Safety -- What Parents Need to Know About School Lockdown Drills

What parents need to know about school safety and lockdown drills.

What is a School Lockdown Drill?

An overview of what a school lockdown drill is, including a list of what procedures are generally involved in a lockdown drill at school.

How to Talk with Kids About Tragic Events in the News

Discussing scary or tragic news events with kids can be tricky. Here are some tips to remember when talking to kids about frightening news.

How to Help a Lost Child

If you spotted a child who might be lost and separated from her parent or caregiver, would you know what to do?

Safety Tips for Kids - What to Teach a Child to Do If He Gets Lost

How to prepare your kids so that they know what to do in the event they become separated from you and are lost.

What to Do If Your Child is Lost

Having a child lost, even if for a short period of time, can be one of the most nighmarish scenarios for parents and families. Here is what you must know in case this happens to you.

Trick-or-Treating Safety Tips for Halloween

Learn these important tips for keeping kids safe while trick-or-treating on Halloween night.

Kids' Halloween Costume Safety Tips

When choosing kids' Halloween costumes, it's a good idea to keep in mind some basic safety tips to make sure your child's Halloween fun is as safe as it is festive.

How to Spot Signs of Sports Injuries in Children

Read about how to spot the signs of sports injuries in children to keep your child safe and healthy when she plays a sport or participates in a physical actitivity.

Kids' Lunch Boxes and Food Safety

Pack a lunch for your child that's as safe to eat as it is healthy, nutritious, and tasty. Here's how.

Sugar and Kids: How to Cut Down on How Much They Eat

Easy, smart, and effective ways to cut your family's sugar consumption and get their taste buds used to more healthy treats.

Fostering a Healthy Body Image in Kids

Countering pervasive images of unrealistic body images and emphasis on physical appearances can be an important way parents can help kids develop a healthy self-esteem and a good relationship with their own bodies, health eating, and exercise.

Top Sports Injury Prevention Tips for Kids

Your grade-schooler can get a lot out of playing sports. But alongside the positives, such as fitness and self-confidence and self-discipline, your child could also be at risk for a sports injury. What are the most common injuries and how can you keep you child safe while he has fun?

Stress Management for Children

Effective ways to manage stress in children and spot the signs of anxiety in kids.

Easing Anxiety About Head Lice

Having a child diagnosed with head lice can be a stressful experience. Here are some ways parents can ease their kids' anxiety -- and their own -- about head lice.

Head Lice in Children

As common as the problem of head lice infestation is among school-age children, many parents are not as informed as they could be about these persistent parasites. Here are some important facts about head lice in children.

Head Lice in School

Managing head lice in schools is moving toward allowing children who have lice and nits to continue coming to class. Here's a look at what's behind the new policy and what schools and parents can do to handle cases of lice in school.

Frequently Asked Questions About Head Lice

When it comes to head lice, parents have lots of questions. Here are the most commonly-asked questions about head lice and their answers.

Top 10 Myths About Head Lice

Myths about head lice are nearly as persistent as lice themselves. Here are some of the most common misunderstandings about head lice.

How to Spot Head Lice Symptoms

What symptoms to look for if you suspect that your child may have contracted head lice.

What are Head Lice?

A definition of what head lice is.

School and Health -- 11 Tips for Keeping Kids Healthy During the School Year

Try these tips for keeping kids healthy during the school year and all year round and learn how to ward off colds and flu, pack healthy lunches and snacks, and more.

Hurricanes, Earthquakes, and Other Emergencies -- How to Prepare for Disasters

When it comes to disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or acts of terrorism, it's crucial to be prepared. Here are important tips on how to be ready to handle emergencies to keep your family safe.

How to Choose and Use School Backpacks Correctly to Prevent Back Pain

Carrying heavy school backpacks and using them incorrectly can lead to back pain in school-age children. Use these tips for buying the right backpack and using it correctly to prevent back pain in your child.

Myths About Child Sex Offenders

To really know how to protect your child from predators, you must know what the facts are behind the myths about child sex offenders.

Protecting Against Child Predators: Beyond Stranger Danger

The biggest threat to your child's safety is not a lurking stranger. Learn how to protect your child from child predators, who may be closer than you think.

Book Review: Protecting the Gift

A review of Gavin de Becker's book Protecting the Gift: Keeping Children and Teenagers Safe (and Parents Sane) -- a must-read for anyone who has a child. This book is chock full of crucial information and tips for parents and kids to spot and avoid potentially-dangerous people and situations.

seasonal allergies in children - Tell Us Your Seasonal Allergies in Children...

Seasonal allergies in children can be miserable for kids and worrying for parents. What are your stories about seasonal allergies in your children? How do pollen, mold, and other allergens affect your kids? How do you handle their seasonal allergy symptoms?

7 Best Ways to Boost Parents' and Kids' Immune System Function

One of the most important ways families can ward off colds and flu and other illnesses is by boosting adults' and kids' immune system function. Here are some cardinal rules for keeping your family healthy during cold and flu season and all year-round.

Adults' and Kids' Immune System - What are Your Tips for Keeping Your Family...

What are your tips for keeping your family healthy and boosting adults' and kids' immune system health? Do you have tried-and-true methods for warding off colds, such as a special family soup recipe or other home remedy? What are your family's stay-healthy habits during cold and flu season?

5 Bad Habits for Adults and Kids' Immune System Health

Adults' and kids' immune system function is dependent on how well you take care of your body. But unhealthy habits can weaken immune system health and prevent your body from doing its job to fend off illness.

How Much Should Adults and Children Sleep?

How much should adults and children sleep? The amount of sleep we should get each night depends on your age and individual needs. Some people may naturally need less sleep than others, and be perfectly health, happy, and productive on fewer hours of sleep. And as we get older, we naturally need fewer hours of sleep at night.

FAQ - At What Age Can Your Child Walk to School Alone?

What do child safety experts say is a good age for kids to walk to school alone? School-age kids are itching for independence. But walking to school alone isn't a good idea just yet. Child safety experts say most kids under age 10 may not be ready to walk to school without supervision.

Boosting Immune System and Teaching Kids Healthy Habits to Prevent Cold and Flu

While it's not possible to shield your family completely from catching a cold and flu especially if they attend daycare or school, you can boost her immune system and decrease her chances of picking up an infection.

Children and Sleep: Is Your Child Getting Enough Shut-Eye?

For many active school-aged children, sleep can be as hard to come by as it is for busy adults. After-school activities, homework, and playtime with family and friends can all lead to a packed schedule. Add to that the lure of electronics such as TV, computers and videogames, and you have the makings of chronic sleep deficit in kids. But how can...

The Top Most Germy Places and Things in Public

What are the most germy surfaces we touch every day? Here is a list of the worst germ hot spots most of us encounter routinely.

How to Use Reusable Shopping Bags Safely

While reusable bags can make a significant difference in the amount of plastic and paper bags that are disposed every year, recent studies have shown that these bags can be a breeding ground for bacteria. Some reusable grocery bags have also been found to contain high levels of lead. Here is what consumers can do to protect themselves against possible contamination and make sure their reusable bags are safe.

10 Best Foods to Boost Your Immune System

While no one food is a silver bullet for optimal immune system function, here are some superstar foods that you should include in your diet, especially when heading into cold and flu season.

How Foods Can Boost Your Immune System

While there is no one magic food that will boost your family's immune system health, eating a well-balanced diet rich in fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein is an important part of maintaining good health.

Child Sleep - What are Your Best Tips for Good Child Sleep Habits?

A good child sleep routine can be a crucial part of making sure your child gets the amount of sleep she needs. What are your best tips for setting good sleep habits in your child?

The New "Dirty Dozen" Fruits and Vegetables to Buy Organic Wh...

Some fruits and vegetables -- the so-called dirty dozen -- have greater contamination of pesticides. Children are especially susceptible to the health risks from common pesticides, which include brain and nervous system development problems, cancer, and hormone system disruptions. Here are the dirty dozen of produce what parents should try to buy organic or avoid when possible.

How to Treat Kids' Seasonal Allergies

If your child has seasonal allergies, the wonderful advantages of spring such a warming weather, longer daylight hours, and spring flowers can be undercut by seasonal allergy symptoms. Sneezing, nasal congestion, itchy eyes, and other misery-inducing symptoms can make spring a challenging time for many kids and adults. Here are some ways to...

Top 10 Summer Safety Checklist Tips

Summer is a time for fun, but a safety checklist of some simple tips can ensure that kids stay safe while playing outside. Post these top summer safety checklist tips to remind yourself and your whole family of simple ways to stay safe this summer.

How to Put Eyedrops in Your Child's Eyes

Putting eyedrops into a child's eyes can often be a daunting task since many kids simply do not like the idea or sensation of having drops put into their eyes. Here is a step-by-step guide to make putting eyedrops into a child's eyes easier--for both parents and kids!

What Are Anxiety Disorders in Children?

An anxiety disorder is defined as anxiety in children that can be persistent and intense, and can interfere with a childs daily routines and activities. What are the types of common anxiety disorders in children. And how can parents help their children overcome their anxiety disorders?

How to Keep Boiled Eggs Fresh

Important food safety tips for hard-boiled eggs

What Are Anxiety Disorders in Children?

An anxiety disorder is defined as anxiety in children that can be persistent and intense, and can interfere with a child's daily routines and activities. What are the types of common anxiety disorders in children. And how can parents help their children overcome their anxiety disorders?

How Do You Discuss Scary and Upsetting News Events with Your Kids?

In today's 24-hour-news cycle society, it's almost impossible to shield our media-savvy children from disturbing or frightening news headlines. How do you discuss news events about disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis or violence such as crime and terrorism with your kids?

What are Your Best Tips for Handling Anxiety in Children?

Anxiety in children is a common problem. Many children can experience stress and anxiety at some point in their development, whether it's because a change in the family, a problem at school, or something else that's bothering them. What are your best tips for handling anxiety in children?

How to Handle Anxiety in Children

Anxiety in children is a common problem. Academic and social pressures, overscheduling, changes at home, and even scary news headlines can all lead to stress in kids. But by taking a few simple measures, parents can reduce and even prevent stress and anxiety in kids.

How to Handle Anxiety in Children

Anxiety in children is a common problem. Academic and social pressures, overscheduling, changes at home, and even scary news headlines can all lead to stress in kids. But by taking a few simple measures, parents can reduce and even prevent stress and anxiety in kids.

Holiday Stress and Anxiety in Children

The holidays can be a busy time for many families, which means that holiday stress and anxiety in children can be a common problem. Here are some ways parents can help prevent holiday stress and alleviate anxiety in children.

How to Reduce Your Holiday Stress

The holidays can be a fun and festive time, but it can also cause holiday stress. Here are some common causes of holiday stress and great ideas for how to relieve stress and anxiety.

Top 10 Swine Flu Vaccine Questions on Parents Minds

Parents of school-age children are understandably confused and concerned about the swine flu vaccine. Here, we address the top questions parents have about the swine flu vaccine to help them sort fact from fiction.

Swine Flu - How Do You Discuss Scary Topics Like Swine Flu wi...

In today's society, it's nearly impossible to shield our children from scary news headlines. Grade-school age children are becoming more aware of and interested in events in their immediate world and beyond, and are likely to pick up on frightening or sad events, such as stories about kids getting sick with swine flu. How do you discuss unpleasant news events with your kids?

Parents' Guide to Swine Flu

What do parents of grade-school age kids need to know about how to protect their children and themselves against swine flu?

Swine Flu Fact vs. Fears

If you've been feeling anxious about swine flu, it's understandable. Perpetual headlines about swine flu outbreaks and deaths have created a skewed impression that swine flu is poised to strike our children and families. But what are the facts behind the fears?

Talking to Your Child about Swine Flu

Not sure how to talk to your grade-schooler about swine flu? Here are some tips on how you can be straight with your grade-schooler while still providing reassurance about swine flu.

When to Take Your Child to the Doctor for Swine Flu Symptoms

If your child develops swine flu or another flu virus, keep an eye out for symptoms that require immediate medical attention.

Best Ways Parents Can Prepare for Swine Flu

No matter how much we try to take steps to prevent swine flu and other contagious illnesses, interacting with others at school and at work means that the risks for contracting illnesses is real. That's why preparing for swine flu infection is a smart move in any cold and flu season.

How to Teach Your Child Proper Hand Washing

Frequent and proper hand washing is an essential and effective way to prevent colds, flu, and other illnesses. Here's how you can teach your child the correct way to wash his hands.

FAQ - When can a child use a public restroom by himself?

At what age can a child begin using a public restroom alone without parental supervision? See what child safety experts say about kids' safety and public restrooms.

How to Set Up Good Sleep Habits in Your Child

How much children sleep can have an affect on their health and development, especially how well they are able to learn at school. Learn how to build good school night sleep habits to help your school-age child get the rest she needs and avoid the problems caused by lack of sleep.

School Bus Safety

A school bus can be very safe form of transportation. But there are crucial safety tips your grade-schooler must know to stay safe in and around a school bus. Here are the must-have child safety tips to teach your grade-schooler about school bus safety.

School Bus Safety

A school bus can be very safe form of transportation. But there are crucial safety tips your grade-schooler must know to stay safe in and around a school bus. Here are the must-have child safety tips to teach your grade-schooler about school bus safety.

Preventing Dog Bite Injuries in Kids

Dog bite injuries affect as many as 4.7 million people a year. Many dog bite victims are children under the age of 14. How can you protect your grade-schooler from dog bites? Here are some tips on how to keep kids safe and what precautions to teach them to avoid dog bite injuries.

Natural Cold Treatments for Kids

With the safety and efficacy of over-the-counter cough and cold medicines under scrutiny for grade-school age children (and the recent recommendation that these medications not be used in kids under age 4), natural remedies are a much more attractive option for parents who want to help relieve their kids' cold symptoms. Try these tips for...

Too Sick for School?

Your child says he isn't feeling well -- should you keep him at home or send him off to school? This is one issue almost every parent has faced at one time or another. Keep this checklist of symptoms on hand to help you make the call the next time your grade-schooler complains of aches and pains.

How to Spot Stress and Anxiety in Children

Anxiety is a common problem among grade-school age children. Children this age child can face a lot of challenges at home and at school as they try to meet academic demands and fulfill responsibilities. But parents can help by looking for signs of stress and stepping in when they see their child struggling. Here are some signs of anxiety and...

Teaching Your Child Good Personal Hygiene

Health and hygiene go hand in hand. Here are some great tips on how to teach children good personal hygiene habits.

How to Spot Stress and Anxiety in Children

Anxiety is a common problem among grade-school age children. Children this age child can face a lot of challenges at home and at school as they try to meet academic demands and fulfill responsibilities. But parents can help by looking for signs of stress and stepping in when they see their child struggling. Here are some signs of anxiety and...

When Should You Stop Using a Carseat?

At what age should your school-age child be allowed to ride in the car without a carseat? Safety guidelines suggest looking at the age of the child as well as her height(she should be at least 8 or 4' 9" tall). Read about other ways to keep your child safe while riding in a vehicle.

Bedwetting: How You Can Help

Bedwetting, or nocturnal enuresis, is a common problem. As many as 7 to 10 percent of 7-year-olds wet their bed at night and an estimated 3 percent of children are bedwetters at age 10. If your school-age child is still having nighttime accidents, here are some ways you can help.

Teaching Kids How to Prevent Spread of Germs

What are some important habits kids can learn how to prevent the spread of germs? Since grade-schoolers spend so much time in close contact with each other, classrooms can often act like a petri dish for viruses and bacteria.

Kids and Stress: Quick Stress Relief Strategies

Easy and effective ways to reduce your child's stress quickly.