The phase of 5-year-old development is fraught with emotional extremes and contradictions. At this age, many children are still straddling the not-too-distant past phase of the toddlerhood/preschool years and the "big kid" phase of development to come. A 5-year-old may be able to exhibit much more self-control, such as sitting for periods of time in a classroom and listening to a teacher's instructions. At the same time, a child this age will still be prone to meltdowns over something as small as a spilled glass of milk.

Words and Feelings

 This is the age when many children begin articulating their feelings. For instance, while children naturally feel empathy, a 5-year-old might see a friend in distress and say, "I'm sorry you are sad." If they are upset about something, they will declare what they are thinking, such as, "I'm mad at you, Mommy."

Criticism of Others and Themselves

 Many 5-year-olds will point out things that they see as different or wrong in others' behavior and appearance. At the same time, children this age can also be very critical of themselves and may be hard on themselves if they think they made a mistake or didn't do a good job with something.

Similarly, you may see 5-year-old children exhibit confidence (she may tell younger children about all the things they can do now as a "big" kid, for instance), but then just as quickly fall apart when she realizes that she cannot do something as well as she wanted.

Independence

 As with many milestones at this age, 5-year-old children will experience a desire to be independent at everything from choosing their own clothes to eating certain foods. As many parents of kindergarteners know, these declarations of independence can often result in a battle of wills as when a 5-year-old might insist on going to school in a tutu in the middle of winter or refuses to eat anything but food that is white.

At the same time, many children this age will still need cuddles and comfort, and will want to be "babied" from time to time -- a pattern parents can expect to see to varying degrees in the next few years.