Feeding your grade-schooler -- strategies for picky eating, top power foods for kids, how to build healthy eating habits, and other food tips and tricks.

How to Get Kids to Eat Vegetables

Getting kids to eat veggies is a constant struggle for many parents. Here are some sneaky (and effective) strategies to get kids to rethink vegetables and steer them toward even (gasp!) liking them!

Quick and Easy Healthy Desserts for Kids

Healthy desserts for kids? It's totally possible to sneak in some spinach and even zucchini into yummy, chocolatey desserts. Read on for more ideas for healthy, easy, and kid-friendly desserts.

Kids' Lunch Boxes and Food Safety

Kids' lunch boxes should be packed with food that's as safe as it is delicious and nutritious for your child.

Sugar and Kids: How to Cut Down on How Much They Eat

Easy, smart, and effective ways to cut your family's sugar consumption and get their taste buds used to more healthy treats.

School Lunch Ideas and Recipes

Looking for school lunch ideas? Here are some easy and delicious ideas for healthy school lunches your child will love to eat.

What Ideas Do You Have for Great After School Snacks for Kids

Send us your ideas for your best after-school snacks. They can be creative, fun, healthy, or delicious--whatever favorite snacks your kids love.

Quick and Healthy After-School Snacks

Kids often want a snack after school to tide them over until dinnertime. Here are some great ideas and tips for kids' after-school snacks.

Ideas for Quick and Healthy After-School Snacks

Healthy after school snacks ideas that are quick, easy, and sure to be a hit with kids.

10 Best Foods to Boost Your Immune System

While no one food is a silver bullet for optimal immune system function, here are some superstar foods that you should include in your diet, especially when heading into cold and flu season.

Quick and Easy Dinner Recipes and Ideas for Weeknights

Do you have any favorite quick and easy dinner recipes or ideas? Getting dinner on the table on a busy school night is a constant challenge for...

Green Lunch Box Ideas for School

Making kids' school lunch boxes can often mean using lots of disposable packaging such as boxes of juice, paper napkins, plastic bags, and plastic utensils. But with a few small changes, it can be easy to reduce waste and pack a more green kids' school lunch box.

Ideas for Kids' School Lunch Boxes

What to put in kids' school lunch boxes is one of the biggest daily challenges for parents. But with a little creativity, some leftovers, and some colorful fruits and veggies, you can make yummy and delicious-looking school lunch boxes your kids will love.

How to Make Korean Rolled Omelets for a Bento Lunch

Here's how you can make protein-packed Korean rolled omelets. They're easy to make but look complicated -- no one will know that you didn't slave over a hot stove to make these yummy morsels.

Asian Rolled Omelets for a Bento Lunch

Protein-packed Asian rolled omelets are perfect for a bento school lunch box. The best part: They're easy to make and delicious, too!

How to Make Fruits and Vegetables Stay Fresh Longer

What are some tips for keeping fruits and vegetables fresher for longer periods of time?

Brain-Boosting Healthy Breakfasts

Breakfast really can be the most important meal of the day, especially for grade-schoolers. Eating a balanced breakfast of complex carbohydrates with protein can boost their brain power and give them energy to help them concentrate and do well in school.

Best Ways to Build Healthy Eating Habits

Whether your child is an adventuresome foodie or a picky eater, you can help shape his preferences and attitudes toward food by encouraging these healthy food habits.

Sneaking Vegetables into Kids' Meals

It's one of those unsolved mysteries that's defied explanation for eons: Many grade-school age children refuse to eat even one bite of anything resembling a vegetable -- most especially if it's green -- even if they loved veggies as younger children. So what can a frustrated parent do? For starters, pull out your blender.

Building Strong Bones

Your grade-school age child needs between 800 and 1,300 mgs (or 3 to 4 servings) of calcium every day. Is she getting enough? And what can you do to make sure she is eating enough of this essential mineral to make sure her bones will grow strong and healthy?

Great After-School Snack Ideas

What should you or your caregiver offer your child the next time she comes home from school and asks for a snack? Here are some excellent ideas for healthy snack choices.