Ideas for crafts and activities to do with kids to celebrate holidays and other special occasions.

Rainbow Loom Diamond Pattern Halloween Bracelets

Learn how to make this diamond pattern Rainbow Loom bracelet for Halloween.

Easter Crafts for Kids - Glittery Paper Easter Egg-Shaped Ornaments

Learn how to make this beautiful glittery paper Easter ornament, which is one of the easiest Easter crafts for kids.

St. Patrick's Day Crafts - How to Make Paper Shamrocks

Learn how to make paper shamrocks, which is one of the easiest St Patricks Day crafts for kids. When you're done, you can add them to St. Patrick's Day cards, place cards, gifts, or anything else you want!

Spring Crafts - How to Make a Colorful Paper Chain

Learn how to make this pretty and colorful paper chain garland, which is one of the most fun and easy spring crafts you can make with kids.

Valentine Crafts for Kids - How to Make a Glitter Hearts Garland

If you have some glitter and colored paper, you can make this pretty glitter hearts garland, one of the most easy and simple Valentine crafts for kids.

Valentine Crafts for Kids - How to Make Rainbow Hearts Valentine Cards

Learn how to make rainbow and patterned hearts homemade Valentine's Day cards with a heart punch and washi tape or colorful paper.

Valentine Cards for Kids - DIY Paper Punch Hearts and Flowers Cards

Follow these easy, step-by-step instructions to make pretty and festive homemade Valentine Cards for Kids that are simple and inexpensive.

Valentine Crafts for Kids - Ideas for Pretty Valentine Treats Gift Wrap

Learn how to make these pretty DIY handmade Valentine treats gift wraps. This project is one of the easiest and prettiest Valentine crafts for kids.

Valentine Crafts for Kids - How to Make a Linking Hearts Valentine Chain

To make this easy and pretty linking hearts paper chain Valentine craft, all you need is some colored paper and a cookie cutter.

Winter Crafts for Kids

Creating winter crafts with kids is the perfect way to celebrate the season. The next time it's cold and blustery outside, break out the crafts materials and let your child exercise his or her imagination and creativity.

Money-Saving Idea - How to Make DIY Wrapping Paper and Gift Tags

A great money-saving idea is to make DIY wrapping paper and gift tags with inexpensive materials. It's a great idea for a gift for a birthday, holiday, or any other occasion!

Christmas Crafts for Kids - How to Make a Felt Ornament

Learn how to make this pretty, complicated-looking felt ornament, which is one of the surprisingly easy Christmas crafts for kids.

Christmas Crafts for Kids - How to Make a DIY Felt Mistletoe Wreath

This gorgeous and easy DIY felt mistletoe wreath is one of the great Christmas crafts for kids. Learn how to make this easy and beautiful felt wreath with kids.

Christmas Crafts for Kids - How to Make a DIY Felt Mistletoe

Learn how to make this easy DIY felt mistletoe. This pretty felt mistletoe is a great idea for Christmas crafts for kids

Christmas Crafts - How to Make Easy, Pretty Paper Ornaments with Kids

Need a fun idea for Christmas crafts for kids? Learn how to make easy, pretty paper ornaments using strips of colorful paper.

Winter Crafts for Kids - Snowflake Garland

You'll love making this snowflake garland. It's one of the most fun and easy winter crafts for kids.

Christmas Crafts for Kids - Pom-Pom Garland

Learn how to make this cute and festive pom-pom garland, which is one of the easiest and super-fun Christmas crafts for kids.

Christmas Crafts for Kids - Felt Christmas Trees

Learn how to make these easy and festive felt Christmas trees. They are the perfect Christmas crafts for kids!

Winter Crafts - How to Make a Paper Snowman Garland

You and your kids will love making this fun snowman garland, which is one of the easiest winter crafts for kids.

How to Make a Rainbow Loom Three Pin Fishtail Bracelet

Easy instructions for how to make a three pin fishtail Rainbow Loom bracelet.

How to Make Double Braid Rainbow Loom Bracelets, Part 1

This is Part 1 of How to Make a Double Braid Rainbow Loom Bracelet, a fun (though a bit more challenging) rubber band bracelet craft for kids.

How to Make Double Braid Rainbow Loom Bracelets, Part 2

Here is Part 2 of How to Make a Double Braid Rainbow Loom Bracelet.

Why Rainbow Loom Can Be Good for Kids' Development

Surprising ways Rainbow Loom can help kids build cognitive, social, and other important skills.

Halloween Rainbow Loom Single Pattern Bracelet

Halloween single pattern rubber band bracelets to make with kids in festive orange, black, and white colors.

Halloween Crafts for Kids

You will love these ideas for fun Halloween crafts for kids because they're easy, fun, and useful for decorating the house for Halloween!

Fall Crafts - How to Make a Fall Wreath with Paper Leaves

This easy fall wreath is a cinch to make, all you need are some cookie cutters and paper in beautiful fall colors. Read on to find out how to make this beautiful fall craft with kids.



How to Make Paper Fan Decorations

Learn how to make gorgeous paper fan decorations with kids using these easy instructions. Once you're done, you can proudly display your work and brighten a room or a party with these starbursts of color!

Halloween Crafts - Paper Pumpkin Jack O'Lantern Halloween Wreath

Make this fun and festive jack o'lantern pumpkin Halloween wreath with kids and decorate the house for Halloween!

Homemade Halloween Decorations - Halloween Mummy Treat Cups

These easy mummy treats cups are the perfect Halloween crafts for kids -- cheap, simple, and festive homemade halloween decorations.

Homemade Halloween Decorations - Hanging Paper Fans

These easy paper fans are the perfect homemade Halloween decorations, and they're fun for kids to make, too!

Halloween Crafts - Halloween Spider Web Decorations

Learn how to make these easy paper Halloween spider web decorations with kids. All you need is some black paper and glue and glitter and you'll have festive, sparkly and spooky webs in no time!

Halloween Crafts - Black Cat Halloween Paper Lanterns

Learn how to make these easy and festive spooky black cat Halloween paper lanterns with kids.

Halloween Crafts - Pop Up Ghost Halloween Invitations

Learn how to make these super-simple pop up ghost Halloween invitations with kids.

How to Make a Rainbow Loom Fishtail Bracelet

Learn how to make this easy fishtail Rainbow Loom bracelet with kids.

DIY Kids' Birthday Party Decorations - How to Make a Paper Starburst

Make these easy but gorgeous DIY paper starburst kids' party decorations for your next celebration.

How to Make a Rainbow Loom Rubber Band Bracelet

Making rubber band bracelets with Rainbow Loom kits is so fun and easy, it's easy to see why this fun craft is a big hit with kids.

Washi Tape Crafts

Washi tape is easy and fun to use, and is the perfect material to make arts and crafts with kids.

Handmade Washi Tape, Vellum and Other Cards for Birthdays, Holidays, and More

These handmade wsshi tape and vellum cards are fun for kids to make and share for Mother's Day, Father's Day, birthdays, holidays, or for any other special occasion.

A Beautiful and Easy Felt Flower to Make with Kids

This gorgeous felt flower is easy and fast, and can be the perfect fall craft, spring craft, or a fun project for just about any occasion for kids.

Summer Crafts for Kids - Easy Friendship Bracelets

These simple diagonal stripe pattern easy friendship bracelets are the perfect summer craft for kids.

Summer Crafts for Kids - How to Make Paper Fans

Learn how to make these fun and easy paper fans with kids.

What to Put in a Kids' Craft Box

Do you have everything you need for a rainy (or snowy or hot) day at home when the kids say they're bored? Read about what you should be in every well-stocked kids' craft box.

Mother's Day Crafts - Washi Tape Hearts Bookmark

This washi tape hearts bookmark is easy and fun to make with kids. It's the perfect Mother's Day craft!

Washi Tape Ideas - Mother's Day Cards

Make these easy and beautiful washi tape hearts Mother's Day cards with your kids.

Washi Tape Thank You Cards and Birthday Cards

An easy and beautiful idea for handmade thank you cards or birthday cards you can make with kids using washi tape flags.

Washi Tape Mothers Day Cards

Your child will love making and giving these beautiful washi tape and vellum paper Mother's Day cards to the moms in her life.

Vellum Mother's Day Cards

These gorgeous Mother's Day cards are created with some pretty vellum paper and card stock. Your child will love making these and sharing them with the moms he or she knows and loves!

How to Decorate Folders with Washi Tape

Easy and beautiful ideas for how to decorate used and new notebooks and paper with washi tape.

What is Washi Tape?

Washi tape is beautiful decorative tape from Japan. Because it is a masking tape, it's easy to work with and is the perfect craft material for kids.

Washi Tape Cake Flags

Washi tape cake flags are fun to make with kids and are the perfect addition to a cake for any party or celebration. Try making these easy washi tapes in pretty color combinations of your choice!

Tulip Flower Easter Wreath

An easy and colorful flower Easter wreath to make with kids using just a few materials.

Easter Egg Ornaments with Streamers

All you need is paper and an egg-shaped cookie cutter and glitter glue to make these beautiful paper Easter egg ornaments.

Summer Crafts for Kids

These cute and easy summer crafts are perfect for a lazy summer afternoon or a rainy day. Pull our your art bin and crafts supplies and let your imaginations fly as you make these fun summery crafts with kids!

Easy Paper Punch Easter Garland

This garland is as pretty as it is easy. Make this Easter garland using paper and some paper punches and ribbon; its' that simple!

Summer Craft for Kids - Rattail Cord Braided Bracelet

Make this fun friendship rattail cord braided bracelet with kids. Your child will want to make one for herself and for her friends, too!

Washi Tape Egg Basket Easter Cards

This beautiful and fun Easter card was made using washi tape, the pretty Japanese decorative masking tape that's growing more popular in the U.S. today.

Washi Tape Bunny Easter Cards

A beautiful bunny Easter card to make with kids using washi tape for the cover and for the bunting flags inside the card.

Place Card Ideas

These pretty place cards are perfect for the Easter table or for any party or celebration, be it a birthday, holiday, or just a fun gathering. Your kids will love making these fun place cards and using them to set your festive table!

How to Make Gift Bags for Kids

Make these pretty gift bags for kids for your next party or celebration. Your kids will love making them as much as they do sharing them with friends and family!

How to Make Crepe Paper Flowers

Step-by-step instructions for how to make beautiful crepe paper flowers to make with kids.

Decorating Easter Eggs

Fun and easy ideas for creating beautiful and colorful Easter eggs with kids.

Paper Flower Wreath

This gorgeous paper wreath is easy to make, and so much fun to create with kids. Children naturally love beautiful colors, and they will adore helping you make these lovely paper blossoms and helping you place them on the wreath.

Fabric Necklace for Kids

If you have long scraps of fabric or fabric ribbons, you can create these pretty fabric necklaces for kids. Add a few paper flowers and you'll have a pretty, trendy necklace your child will love to wear for spring, or anytime of the year!

Easy and Beautiful Washi Tape Butterflies

Make these pretty washi tape butterflies with your kids to decorate presents, cards, or anything else you want! Washi tape, the decorative Japanese masking tapes that come in beautiful colors and designs, are the perfect crafting material for kids. Help them make these butterflies and see where their imaginations take them!

Tissue Paper Flower Crafts for Kids

These lovely tissue paper flowers are so easy to make, and are perfect for spring, Valentine's Day, or for anytime of the year!

Summer Crafts for Kids - Felt Pouches

These cute and colorful felt pouches are so easy and fun to make, your child will want to create several different styles!

Summer Crafts - 4th of July Paper Rockets

An idea for easy and festive paper rocket 4th of July craft for kids.

Father's Day Crafts

These crafts are easy and fun to make, and are the perfect ways to show dad how much you love him this Father's Day.

Father's Day Cards - Washi Tape Photo Frame Cards

This idea for a photo card frame decorated with washi tape is a perfect Father's Day card, Mother's Day card, or a gift for any other occasion.

Fathers Day Cards - Washi Tape and Dad Descriptions

Tell dad how you feel with this washi tape Father's Day card decorated with adjectives that tell him how great you think he is.

Summer Crafts - Washi Tape Rocks, Starfish, and Shells

This idea for a fun summer craft to do with kids involves decorating shells, rocks, and paper starfish with washi tape to add color and pizazz to your summer.

An Easy and Pretty Easter Garland

This Easter garland is a cinch to make. All you need are some cookie cutters or a paper punch and brightly-colored paper and ribbon and voila! You have a pretty Easter garland that you can hang around your house to make it festive for Easter!

Washi Tape Ideas - Washi Tape Bookmark

Here is an idea for a washi tape bookmark to make with kids. It's the perfect gift for Mother's Day, a thank you gift for teachers, and so much more.

Teacher Gift Ideas - Vellum Thank You Cards

Make these easy and beautiful vellum thank you cards with kids. Teaching kids to say thanks with handmade thank you cards is a great way to establish good manners in kids.

How to Make a Halloween Rainbow Loom Pumpkin Charm - Part 1

These Halloween pumpkins are made with rubber bands using bracelet making kits like Rainbow Loom. They are so cute and are perfect for Halloween!

Easter Crafts - Sparkly Paper Easter Egg Garland

Learn how to make this sparkly and glittery paper Easter garland, which is one of the easiest Easter crafts you can make with kids.

Washi Tape Ideas - Decorating Journals, Notebooks and Photo Books

Washi tape is perfect for decorating journals, photo books, and notebooks to make personalized gifts for Mother's Day, Father's Day, for a teacher gift, and for any other occasion.