Beyond thank you and please -- strategies for raising a grade-schooler who has good manners, knows how to make friends, and is a good citizen of the world.

How to Raise a Grateful Child - And Why You Should

How to raise a grateful child and how gratitude is important for a child's development and happiness.

Overindulged Children - Are You Overindulging Your Child?

How to avoid the pitfall of raising overindulged children in your home and why overindulging kids can be harmful for them.

How to Make Sure Your Kids Don't Get Affluenza -- No Matter What Your Income

How to prevent kids from getting affluenza and being greedy and feeling entitled.

Teaching Kids Kindness

Teaching kids kindness is more important than ever in today's social sharing world. Here are some ways parents can encourage kids to be nice.

10 Year Olds and Social Development

10 year olds are on the cusp of adolescence and are socializing with friends and family at a deeper and more meaningful level than ever before. Here's what you can expect to see in the social development of your 10-year-old child.

Is Your Child Ready for Sleepaway Camp?

When considering whether or not your child is ready for sleepaway camp program, think about factors beyond your child's age, such as how independent he is and how well he handles new and unfamiliar situations.

Bullying in Schools

Bullying in schools and outside of the classroom is a problem for all too many children today, even those as young as grade-school age. Learn how to prevent and spot bullying, and how to handle it if it happens.

What to Do When Your Child is a Bully

Finding out that your child has been acting like a bully can be devastating news for parents. What are some ways parents can handle bullying behavior in their child?

How to Talk to Your Child About September 11

Do you know what you will say when your child asks questions about September 11? Here are some tips on how to talk to your child about the events of that day, and what they meant for our nation.

Your 9-Year-Old Child: Social Development

For 9-year-old children, their social network and role models are expanding beyond mom and dad. Nine-year-old children will put more emphasis on friendships and may look up to adults other than their parents, such as a coach or a teacher. They will care more about what others think -- which could lead to peer pressure and influence.

Your 8 Year Old Child: Social Development

You may begin to see a newfound sense of self-confidence in your 8-year-old child as she expresses her opinions about people and things around her. She may pay more attention to news events, and want to share her thoughts on current event topics. At home and at school, 8-year-old children will enjoy friendships and thrive in sports teams and...

Your 7-Year-Old Child: Social Development

Seven-year-old children will develop close friendships, and will enjoy forming close attachments to a role model that may or may not be a parent, such as a teacher or an uncle or aunt. At age 7, children will care more about what others think, and will have a more developed sense of empathy, fairness, and morals.

6-Year-Olds and Social Development

Six-year-old children will naturally gravitate toward more independence and will increasingly begin to focus more on friendships with peers. As such, 6-year-olds will show interest in adults outside of the family, such as friends' parents or teachers.

5 Year Olds and Social Development

Five-year-olds are engaging much more in interactions with friends and playmates. At school or at home, 5-year-old children will increasingly play with other kids, learn how to share and cooperate, and develop close friendships.

The Importance of Emotional Intelligence and Empathy in Kids

Teaching empathy and nurturing emotional intelligence in a child is one of the most important jobs we have as parents. Research shows that emotional intelligence may even be more important for life success than intellectual intelligence. And teaching empathy to a child may be an important factor in warding off bullying behavior.

Teaching Kids about Race and Cultural Diversity

Children are naturally geared toward respecting and appreciating differences. Here are some great ways parents can nurture those instincts as they teach their kids about race and cultural diversity.

10 Great Ways to Help Your Child Go Green

Your grade-schooler is ready to learn more about the environment, and what he can do to make a difference at home and in the world. Here are 10 great ways you can help him live a greener life.

Raising a Charitable Child

Children are naturally geared toward empathy and charity -- wonderful traits we parents can nurture as we teach our grade-schoolers how to help those in need.

Helping Your Child Make New Friends

By kindergarten and grade-school, children are socializing more and are increasingly making friends on their own at school. But while you are no longer your child's sole social director, you can help your grade-schooler learn how to form positive and rewarding relationships. Here's how.

Manners for Younger Grade-Schoolers

As your younger grade-schooler begins school and increasingly interacts with peers and grownups on his own, knowing how to behave respectfully will become more important than ever. Here are some manners you can expect your young child to learn.

How to Help Your Child Cope with Cliques

Whether at school or in your neighborhood, grade-school age children are likely to encounter cliques. How can you help your child deal with the negative aspects of this common childhood phenomenon, whether she's included or left out?

Social Skills That Are Important for 1st Grade

The social skills that are important for first grade continue to be the ability to communicate his needs and interact with adults other than his parents,but this year many of his social emotional milestones revolve around his ability to get along with other children, in groups and to see other points of view.

How to Teach a Child to Greet People Properly

Easy and effective ways to teach kids how to greet people politely.