Monitoring TV, video games, computers. Essential guidelines for weeding out undesirable content and keeping kids safe in our high-tech world.

Cutting Down Kids' Screen Time Means Better Health, Grades for Kids

Limiting and monitoring screen time can have measurable and definite benefits for kids, including improved sleep, better grades, less aggression, and reduced risk of obesity.

Internet Safety for Kids

Today, more kids are online than ever, and at increasingly younger ages. What do parents need to know about how to protect them when they go on the internet?

Kids and Technology: When to Limit It and How

Technology can be a great and useful tool and source of entertainment for kids. But it's important for parents to keep in mind that screen time must be limited.

Social Media for Kids: How to Keep Them Safe

If your child is using or planning to use social media sites, here are some important safety tips you need to know to keep them safe while they socialize.

A Great Gift for Holidays or Any Time: A Photo Album Book

One of the best gifts you can make for a grandparent or parent is a photo album book, filled with photos of family and kids enjoying everyday moments and special occasions such as vacations or holidays. There are several great sites you can choose from when creating a photo album book. The best ones are easy to use, not too expensive, and...

Most Questionable Parenting Moments of 2010

If you ever find yourself having a bad parenting moment, take a look at these examples of really bad parenting. You're bound to feel better, fast. Here is a list of some examples of bad parenting that we saw in 2010.

Best Kids CD Choices for Family Road Trips

For your next family road trip take along these great kid CD choices that are likely to keep everyone in the car humming and toe-tapping along, no matter what age.

How to Have a Great Family Movie Night

Looking for great kids movies for your family? Check out these ideas for how to have a great family movie night. Whether you want to find the latest kids movies in theaters or a great family movie DVD, try these ideas for how to have a great family movie night.

Choosing the Right New Kids Movies and DVDs for Family Movie Nights

Choosing the right new kids movies and DVDs for your next family movie night can be easy if you know where to go. Learn how to research the new kids movies in theaters and new kids movies on DVD. Then, trust your own instincts about which kids movies are right for your family.

Choosing the Right New Kids Movies and DVDs for Family Movie Nights

Choosing the right new kids movies and DVDs for your next family movie night can be easy if you know where to go. Learn how to research the new kids movies in theaters and new kids movies on DVD. Then, trust your own instincts about which kids movies are right for your family.

7 Strategies for Limiting Media Violence

Your grade-schooler will inevitably be exposed to some violent or inappropriate content, just by being in the world. How can you limit undesirable media from coming into your home?

Cyberbullying and Grade School-Age Kids

As more and more younger children text, use social networking sites, and go online, the potential for cyberbullying increases as well. Here's what you need to know about cyberbullying and what you can do to guard your child against it now.

When Should Kids Go Online?

At what age should children go online and how can you keep them safe? This is a big topic for parents of grade-schoolers, who are tech-savvy and itching to get on the Internet. Here's what you need to know to protect your kids.

10 Ways to Encourage Kids' Healthy TV Viewing Habits

TV, like other media, can be used in a way that benefits children. Here are some great ways you can make sure that your child develops healthy television-viewing habits.

All About Kids' Music

Kids' music today is certainly a far cry from what it used to be just a few decades ago. Choices abound, and it can be tough to know what's good and age-appropriate. Grade-schoolers are beyond Barney (thank goodness!) and not quite up to Britney Spears (double thank goodness). So how can parents find out who's perfect for a school-age child? Go to About.com's Children's Music site for the answers.

Our Family's Favorite Kids' Movie

What is your all-time favorite family movie? What did you and your children love about it? Did you love the plot, the characters, the action? What...See submissions

What is Cyberbullying?

What is cyberbullying and how is it different from other forms of bullying?