Great Games for Young ChildrenBuying games for young children can be tricky. Many of the games available have the ability to drive parents crazy. The games on this list can be enjoyed by young children but give players enough decisions to make that parents will not hate the idea of playing one more time. At Full ThrottleA review of the children's board game At Full Throttle, designed by Robert Fraga and published by Haba. Balloon LagoonA review of the children's game Balloon Lagoon, published by Cranium. Boggle Jr.Boggle Jr. is a delightful first word game for children, helping them to master the alphabet and spell simple words like map, lion, bus and sock. BumparenaA review of the children's board game Bumparena, published by Cranium. CaribooA review of the children's game Cariboo, published by Cranium. Casino Hot DogA review of the children's board game Casino Hot Dog, designed by Wolfgang Dirscherl and published by Haba. Castle KeepA review of the children's board game Castle Keep, designed by Richard D. Reese and published by Gamewright. Chateau RoquefortA review of the children's game Chateau Roquefort, designed by Bernhard Weber and Jens-Peter Schliemann and published by Rio Grande Games / Zoch. Chicken Cha Cha ChaA review of the children's game Chicken Cha Cha Cha, designed by Klaus Zoch and published by Rio Grande Games. Clue Jr.Which pet has hidden which toy in the doghouse? That's the question in this scaled-down version of Clue. Clue Jr. is a solid introductory deduction game but it won't appeal much to adult players. Daddy CoolA review of the children's game Daddy Cool, designed by by Heinz Meister and published by Huch & Friends. Dish It Up!A review of the children's memory game Dish It Up!, designed by Ann and Monty Stambler and published by Gamewright. Duck Duck BruceA review of the children's game Duck Duck Bruce, designed by Peter Neugebauer and published by Gamewright. Enchanted ForestA review of the children's board game Enchanted Forest, designed by Alex Randolph and Michael Matschoss, and published by Ravensburger. Finding NemoIf your children are fans of the Finding Nemo movie from Disney and Pixar, this game is a great way to spend some time playing a really good board game with them. Giro GaloppoA review of the children's game Giro Galoppo, designed by by Jurgen P. Grunau and published by Rio Grande Games / Selecta. Gulo GuloA review of the children's game Gulo Gulo, designed by Hans Raggan, Jurgen P. Granau, and Wolfgang Kramer, and published by Rio Grande Games / Zoch. Gumball RallyA review of Gumball Rally, a children's card game designed by Ted Cheatham and published by Z-Man Games. Hannah Montana Girl TalkA review of the board game Hannah Montana Girl Talk, published by Milton Bradley / Hasbro. Hannah Montana UnoA review of the card game Hannah Montana Uno, pubished by Mattel. Hot Potato - ReviewA review of the card game Hot Potato. Published by Cambridge Games Factory, Hot Potato plays up to 9 players and is ideal for children. Hula HipposA review of Hula Hippos, a children's dexterity game designed by Heinz Meister and published by Gamewright / Haba. HullabalooA review of Hullabaloo, a children's game published by Cranium. Jungle TreasureA review of the children's game Jungle Treasure, designed by Robert Fraga and published by Haba. Jurassic Park III Island Survival GameA review of the board game Jurassic Park III Island Survival Game. KayanakA review of the children's game Kayanak, designed by Peter-Paul Joopen and published by Haba. Kim Possible Board GameChildren who watch the popular Kim Possible cartoon series will enjoy this game, and the advanced rules will keep parents interested. KlondikeA review of the game Klondike, designed by Christian Wolf and Stefanie Rohner, and published by Haba. Midnight PartyA review of the children's board game Midnight Party, designed by Wolfgang Kramer and published by Ravensburger. Monopoly TownA review of the children's board game Monopoly Town, published by Parker Brothers / Hasbro. New York MinuteIf you have children who are fans of Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, and/or who enjoyed the movie New York Minute, this game isn't a horrible one to purchase -- not great, either, but not horrible. Operation Rescue KitA review of the children's board game Operation Rescue Kit. Pirates on the High SeasA review of the children's game Pirates on the High Seas, published by Ravensburger. Pop BellyA review of the children's game Pop Belly, designed by Klaus Teuber and published by SimplyFun. Secret Door, TheA review of the cooperative children's game The Secret Door, designed by Jim Deacover and published by Family Pastimes. Star Wars AttacktixA review of the game Attacktix, a Star Wars-themed game published by Hasbro. Suitcase Detectives, The (Kofferdetektive)A review of the children's board game The Suitcase Detectives, also known as Kofferdetektive, designed by Guido Hoffman and published by Haba. Top TrumpsThe Top Trumps card games, based on the children's game War, won't win awards for strategic gaming, but they will provide hours of inexpensive fun for children who enjoy the themes. Viva Topo!A review of the children's game Viva Topo!, designed by Manfred Ludwig and published by Rio Grande Games / Selecta. Yahtzee JuniorA review of the children's dice game Yahtzee Junior. ZingoA review of the children's board game Zingo, published by ThinkFun. Treasure, Ready, Go!A review of the children's board game Treasure, Ready, Go!, designed by Roberto Fraga and published by Haba. Cheese Snatching (Kaseklau!)A review of the children's dice game Cheese Snatching, also known as Kaseklau!, designed by Wolfgang Dirscherl and published by Haba. Hungry Wolves (Wurfelwolfe)A review of the children's dice game / race game Hungry Wolves, also known as Wurfelwolfe, designed by Marco Teubner and published by Haba. Children's Board Games and Card GamesReaders review children's board games and card games. North Pole - Game ReviewA review of the North Pole card game. This light family-friendly game follows a pack of penguins on a vacation to the North Pole. Sneeze - ReviewA review of the card game Sneeze. This game by Cambridge Game Factory is appropriate for playing with children.