1960: The Making of the President is one of the best games I've ever played, 7 Wonders ranked high on my list of the best card games of 2010, and 1313 Dead End Drive is an updated classic. Among the games in this section are an all-time classic strategy game (Acquire), a laugh-out-loud party game (Apples to Apples), a terrific children's card game (Authors), and one of the most popular war games ever published (Axis & Allies). I always have a great time playing many of the games in this section, including the mythological war game BattleLore, the haunted house game Betrayal at House on the Hill, the semi-cooperative Battlestar Galactica, and the classic word game Boggle. Campaign Manager 2008 lets players recreate the Obama-McCain election, Can't Stop is one of the greatest dice games ever created, Catacombs is a brilliant mix of a dungeon crawl and a dexterity game, and Cosmic Encounter is a sci-fi classic. Do you like negotiating? Try Diplomacy. Would you rather use beautiful pictures to inspire a story? Dixit is the game for you. Perhaps you'd like a great deck-building card game? That's Dominion. And if you want to try the world's most popular roleplaying game, check out Dungeons & Dragons. Two classic games stand out in this section: Euchre, a public domain card game wich can be described as simplified Bridge; and Electric Football, which has entertained people for decades. But Electronic Catchphrase, one of my all-time favorite party games, also deserves attention. A wide variety of great games are included here: Fireball Island is a memorable children's game from the 1980s. Facts in Five is a trivia game from the 1960s that stands up well even today. Formula D is a brilliant auto racing game. Forbidden Island is an exciting cooperative family game. And Fresco was the best board game published in 2010. Some classic games, like Go, Ghosts and Go Fish, are included in this section along with the controversial Ghettopoly and the addictive Golo Golf Dice. HeroScape is one of my favorite games, while the card game Hearts has legions of fans all over the world. Hey Waiter! was my pick as the best card game of 2010, and the race game Hare & Tortoise is a modern classic. Of the games included in this section, Kriegspiel is probably the original war game, I Doubt It is a great family card game, and Inkognito is a terrific deduction game. But my favorite here is the wheeling-and-dealing negotiation game I'm the Boss. In addition to a board game based on the television series Lost, several Lord of the Rings board games are included here, along with the classic public domain bluffing game Liar Dice and its published cousin, Liar's Dice. Zombie hunters will enjoy Last Night on Earth. This section includes Magic: the Gathering, the first mega-popular collectible card game; the ancient board game Mancala; the classic real estate game Monopoly; and the clever deduction game Mr. Jack. Other notable games in this section include the deduction game Mystery Express and the World War II-themed game Memoir '44. Nab-It! is a fun word game, Odin's Ravens is an excellent two-player card game, and Oh Hell is a trick-taking card game which really shines with 5 to 7 players. There's something for just about everyone in this section, with great card games like Parlay and Poker, the tremendously fun Pizza Box Football, the brilliant strategy board game Puerto Rico and classics like Parcheesi, Pente, and Password. I love the cooperative game Pandemic, in which everyone works together to save the world from disease. Ra is my favorite auction game, while Reversi (also known as Othello), Risk and Rook are all modern classics. The dice game Roll Through the Ages is a fun civilization-building game that only takes about 45 minutes to play. In addition to The Settlers of Catan, a wonderful family strategy game that continues to grow in populatiry, included here are the great DVD game Scene It?, the iconic word game Scrabble, a few games set in the Star Wars universe, and a great chase-the-criminal game, Scotland Yard. Two of my favorite party games are in this group: Thingamajig and The Touch. Also here are a great dice game (To Court the King), an absolute top-notch family strategy game (Ticket to Ride -- I love the Nordic Countries version, pictured, best of all), the best-selling trivia game of all time (Trivial Pursuit), and a great strategy game based on the Cold War (Twilight Struggle). In addition to the very popular family card game Uno and the U-Build edition of Monopoly, this section includes Unspeakable Words, an off-beat word game, and Voltage, a very good two-player card game. My favorite trivia game, Wits & Wagers, is among those listed in this section, along with the fun dexterity game Wallamoppi, the brilliant war game We the People, the clever paper-and-pencil game Word Squares, and the creative cooperative game Wok Star. The classic dice game Yahtzee, the award-winning Zooloretto, and the frenetic race game Zig-Zag are among the games in this section.