In this game, based on Rummy (Manipulation is also known as Manipulation Rummy), melds played on the table can be rearranged as long as thge player doing so adds at least one new card. The rules for Gin Rummy, Hollywood Gin and Oklahoma Gin are also available. Players Manipulation is for 2 to 5 players, best with 3 to 5. Deck For two players, one standard 53-card decks (including one joker). For three to five players, two standard 53-card decks (including a total of two jokers). Goal The goal of Manipulation is to score as many points as possible by playing your cards onto the table in legal groups and sequences. Setup The first dealer is chosen randomly. The cards are shuffled and 10 cards are dealt to each player. The remaining cards are set aside to form a face-down draw pile. Gameplay The player to the left of the dealer takes the first turn. A turn consists of the following phases: A player who draws a third card is not permitted to meld on that turn. Play then proceeds in a clockwise direction. Melds A meld can take two forms: a group or a sequence. A meld must include at least three cards. A group is three or four of a kind, such as 8-8-8 or Queen-Queen-Queen. A group cannot contain two identical cards. For example, only one 8 of spades can appear in a group of 8s. A sequence is three or more cards in a row, such as Ace-2-3 or 9-10-Jack. In sequences, Aces can be high or low, but it is not legal to "turn the corner." In other words, King-Ace-2 is not a legal sequence. To meld, a player must play one or more cards from his hand onto the table, face up. All of the cards on the table must be arranged in legal groups or sequences. The first player to meld must play at least one legal group or sequence (i.e., at least three cards). Later players to meld can form new groups and sequences and manipulate existing groups and sequences to form new ones, or extend existing ones. The rules for melding can be summarized as follows: Jokers A Joker can be used to stand in for any card. When a player uses a Joker, he must say what card it represents, both rank and suit. The Joker's value cannot be changed unless it's replaced by the actual card it represents. (That card can come from a player's hand, or from another group or sequence on the table.) It is legal to change a Joker's position on the table as long as the card it represents is not changed. If a Joker is replaced by the actual card it represents, it cannot be removed from the table. It must be used immediately. End of a Round Cards have the following values: After taking his turn, a player may knock if he has five or fewer points remaining in his hand. The rounds ends immediately, and scoring takes place. Scoring The player with the fewest points remaining in his hand is the winner of the round. This may or may not be the person who knocked. In a two-player game, the winner scores the difference in points between the two players' hands. With three to five players, the winner scores the difference in points compared to all of the other players. (i.e., The differences are all added together to determine how many points the winner scores. If the winner is not the person who knocked, he scores an undercut bonus of 10 points. If the person who knocked ties with another player, that other player wins and scores the 10-point undercut bonus. If the person who knocked ties with two other players, those other players both score like they had won; both score the 10-point undercut bonus. If a player wins by playing all of his cards, that player scores a 25-point bonus. If the draw pile is exhausted and no player has knocked, every player (including the one who exhausted the draw pile) has one more turn to meld. At that point, the cards in each hand are totaled and the player with the lowest total wins the round. Winning When one or more players' score totals 150 or more, the game ends. That player (or those players) receive a bonus of 100 points. Each other player receives a bonus of 25 points for each round they won. The player with the most points is the winner.