Austin Powers GamesRaking in more than $70 million, Austin Powers in Goldmember set a record for the biggest opening weekend ever for a comedy. The International Man of Mystery has allowed his image to appear on these board games. Chronicles of Narnia GamesA look at several board games based on The Chronicles of Narnia. Deal or No Deal - Better Online Than on TelevisionThe television show Deal or No Deal is actually much more fun online than it is to watch. Deal or No Deal GamesA review of three Deal or No Deal games: the board game, the card game and the DVD game, all published in 2006. Dukes of Hazzard GamesA look at the Dukes of Hazzard board game and the Dukes of Hazzard card game. Elvis Presley GamesElvis Presley was the undisputed king of rock and roll and appeared in 32 films. Here are the best board games which honor the memory of Elvis Game Show GamesIf you're a game show junkie, you already know the rules to these games. Here are my picks for the best game show board games. High School Musical 2 Board Games and Card GamesBoard games and card games based on the Disney Channel movie High School Musical 2. High School Musical Board Games and Card GamesBoard games and card games based on the Disney Channel movie High School Musical. Jurassic Park III Island Survival Game - ReviewA review of the board game Jurassic Park III Island Survival Game. King Kong GamesA look at several board games based on the King Kong movies. Lord of the Rings GamesThe J.R.R. Tolkien novels set in the Lord of the Rings universe have captivated readers since they were first printed. With these games, you can recreate the LotR experience in another way. Here are my picks for the best games based on Lord of the Rings. Mission Impossible GamesA look at board games and card games based on Mission Impossible. Movie Games - Top PicksApart from playing board games, one of my favorite pastimes is watching movies. Here are my picks for the best games for movie fans. Powerpuff Girls Game - Saving the World Before BedtimeA look at The Powerpuff Girls Game - Saving the World Before Bedtime, a board game published by Milton Bradley. Prince Caspian - The Shield of Courage Card GameA review of Prince Caspian - The Shield of Courage Card Game, based on The Chronicles of Narnia. Roller Coaster Tycoon - Board GameA description of the board game Roller Coaster Tycoon, published by Hasbro Scene It? Adds Seven DVD Games to LineupIn the fall of 2005, Scene It? released seven new DVD-based board games. Here's a summary of each. Simpsons Games - Top PicksThe Simpsons are one of the most enduring families on television, and they've inspired the release of many toys and games. Here are my picks for the best Simpsons board games. Spider-Man DVD Blast!A review of the game Spider-Man DVD Blast!, published in 2007 by Screenlife. Superman Board Games and Card GamesA description of board games and card games which have featured Superman, from 1940 to the present. Television Trivia Games - Top PicksMany of us spend too much time watching television, and there's only one way to turn that time into something productive... playing board games where success is based on knowing too much about television shows. Here are my picks for the best telvision trivia games. The Da Vinci Code GamesBoard games and card games with a Da Vinci theme, including games based on The Da Vinci Code. Unan1mous - The Ultimate Negotiation Game?Is the Fox television series Unan1mous the ultimate negotiation game? Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? GamesInformation about Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? games. Remembering Charles SchulzA look at classic Peanuts-themed board games in honor of the late Charles Shulz. X-Men GamesBrief descriptions of board games and card games featuring The X-Men.