
History 

This card game is known as Authors because early commercial versions of the game featured well-known authors and their books. The first known edition was published by G.M. Whipple and A.A. Smith of Salem, Massachusetts, in 1861. Parker Brothers published an edition in 1897. 

Some such versions are still published today. Over the years, the authors concept has been expanded to include composers, explorers, inventors, and sports figures in various commercial versions of the game. 
Players 

3 to 5 players 
Deck 

A standard 52-card deck. 
Goal 

To form the most sets of four cards. 
Setup 

Shuffle the deck. Deal the cards one at a time, face down, to each player as evenly as possible. The players should look at their cards and arrange them for easy reference. 
Gameplay 

The player to the left of the dealer goes first. 

On his turn, a player asks any other player for a specific card (e.g. the queen of hearts). If the player being asked for a card does have that card, he must give it to the player who requested it. 

If the player whose turn it is receives the requested card, he then goes again, asking any player for a second specific card. 

There's one important restriction: A player may not ask for a card unless he already holds at least one of that card's rank. (e.g. Alexandra doesn't have any Qs. She may not ask any other player for a Q.) 

A player's turn continues until he doesn't receive the card he requests. Turns move in clockwise order. 
Playing Sets 

When a player completes a set of four cards (e.g. four 7s, or four Ks), he should show them to the other players and them place them face down in front of himself. 
Running Out of Cards 

When a player has played all of his cards, had them taken by other players, or some combination of the two, he's out of the game. The other players continue to play as long as they have cards remaining. 
Winning 

When all players are out of cards, the player who collected the most sets of four wins the game. Ties are possible. 
