Get ideas and help with science projects, demonstrations, experiments, laboratory exercises, and other science activities.

Try some of the most popular science projects featured at About's Chemistry site. Most of these project use materials commonly found at home.

These are the most popular demonstrations for chemistry class or chem lab.

Chemistry is fun! Perform your own chemistry demonstrations, laboratory exercises, projects, and experiments. Set up your own home laboratory to learn chemistry safely for fun or home schooling.

A lot of what appears to be magic is really science. Here are some fun science magic trick for you. You can explain the science behind the tricks and use them as demonstrations.

If seeing how a project is done works better for you than reading instructions, then be sure to check out these chemistry project videos. Each video is a step-by-step tutorial for a chemistry project you can perform yourself.

Learn to make different types of slime, gak, gunk, putty, floam, and ooze.

What's chemistry without chemical volcanoes? There are several ways you can use chemical reactions to produce a simulated eruption.

You can use chemistry to cause chemiluminescence, fluorescence, and phosphorescence to make your projects glow in the dark.

Sometimes it's easier, more convenient, or more fun to make the chemicals you use.

Try chemistry demonstrations, crafts, and projects that are suitable for kids. Some activities require adult supervision.

Bubbles are a lot of fun to play with, plus there is a ton of science behind them! Here are some bubble projects you can try that introduce you to how bubbles form, how they interact, and how you can change some of their properties.

Learn about fire and combustion chemistry with these exciting projects.

Make this your one-stop center for all of your science fair project needs. You'll find step-by-step instructions for designing and performing an experiment or demonstration and lots of project ideas.

Here are some fun chemistry projects that are perfect for summer. Make fireworks for the 4th of July, keep away pesky summer bugs, add a bit of color to your campfire. Enjoy the season!

Find a science project that is perfect for Valentine's Day! You can perform a color change reaction, make a chemical "beating heart", prepare a special Valentine gift, and more.