Learn about the history of chemistry. This is a collection of biographies and chronological trends in chemistry history. Find collected papers, accomplishments, and facts about both famous and unfamiliar figures in the field of chemistry. Visit online museum sites devoted to scientific learning.

History of Chemistry

Learn about the history of chemistry, including the transition from alchemy to chemistry, the discovery of the chemical elements, and the inventions and contributions made by famous chemists and Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners.

Chemistry Timeline

Find out who did what and when they did it. This timeline chronicles achievements in chemistry and in other disciplines (e.g., physics, mathematics) as they apply to chemistry.

Who Is the Father of Chemistry?

Here's a look at who is considered the Father of Chemistry and why he is the Father of Chemistry.

Timeline of Element Discovery

Use this table to look up the date an element was discovered and the name(s) of its discoverer. Links to additional element facts are provided, too.

Who Was the First Chemist?

Chemistry has been around for a very long time! Do you know the name of the first chemist in recorded history? Would it surprise you that the first chemist was a woman?

Who Invented the Periodic Table?

Do you know who described the first periodic table of the elements that ordered the elements by increasing atomic weight and according to trends in their properties? I'll give you a hint. It was not Dmitri Mendeleev. The actual inventor of the periodic table is someone rarely mentioned in chemistry history books.

What Is the Nobel Prize Medal Made Of?

The Nobel Prize medal looks like gold, but what is it really made of? Here's the answer to this common question about the composition of the Nobel Prize medal.

5 Elements

There are 5 elements in many philosophies and traditions around the world. Here is a look at the 5 elements in Chinese, Japanese, Buddhist, Greek, Babylonian and alchemy.

Famous Chemists

This is an index of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, arranged alphabetically according to the scientist's last name.

Mendeleev's Periodic Table of the Elements

This is the English translation of Dmitri Mendeleev's periodic table of the elements.

Mendeleev's Periodic Table of the Elements

See what Dmitri Mendeleev's original periodic table of the elements looked like. Blank spaces predict the existence of elements that hadn't been discovered.

Alchemy Symbols

See the alchemical symbols for the chemical elements.

Black Chemists & Chemical Engineers

Black scientists, engineers, and inventors have made important contributions to the science of chemistry. Learn about black chemists and chemical engineers and their projects. The focus is on African American chemists, but black scientists from other countries are included.

Pictures of Famous Chemists

These are images of famous chemists or other scientists who made significant contributions to the field of chemistry.

Alfred B. Nobel Prizes in Chemistry

This is a list of all of the Nobel laureates in Chemistry. The year, winner name(s), country, and research are included. Links to additional information on the laureates and Nobel foundation are also provided.

History of Fireworks

Fireworks are a traditional part of most Independence Day and New Year's celebrations. Learn about the invention of fireworks and the history behind how fireworks are used.

Mole Day

Have you heard about Mole Day? Here's a look at what Mole Day is, when Mole Day is observed, and what you can do to celebrate Mole Day.

Mole Day Activities

Mole Day is a holiday invented as a way to foster interest in chemistry. Do you have any ideas of great ways to celebrate Mole Day? Share them here!

Pictures of Women in Chemistry

See photos of women who made contributions to the field of chemistry.

Houston Museum of Natural Science

If you live in Houston or visit, be sure to visit the Museum of Natural Science. Here is a look at what you can do relating to chemistry at the museum.

Chemistry Quotations - Reader Submissions

There are many interesting quotes about chemistry, made by chemists, other scientists and people with an interest in chemistry. Do you have a chemistry quotation you'd like to share? Here's your chance!

Photo Gallery - Nobel Prize in Chemistry

This is a collection of photographs of the winner for the Nobel Prize in Chemistry.

Women in Chemistry

Women have made many important contributions to the fields of chemistry and chemical engineering. Here's a list of female scientists and a description of the research or invention that made them famous.

Alfred Bernhard Nobel (1833 - 1896)

Chemist and inventor of dynamite. Creator of the Nobel Foundation.

Amedeo Avogadro

Looking for information about Amedeo Avogadro, Avogadro's Hypothesis, and Avogadro's Number? It's all here, including a picture of Avogadro and links to other Avogadro and History of Chemistry web sites.

Dmitri Mendeleev (1834 - 1907)

Dmitri Mendeleev formulated a periodic table similar to the one we use today. Elements were grouped according to recurring trends in their properties.

Ernest Rutherford (1871-1937)

Ernest Rutherford was a British physicist who did research that became the basis for modern nuclear physics. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1908.

Gilbert Newton Lewis (1875 - 1946)

Gilbert Lewis is known for his work in thermodynamics and covalent bonds.

Glenn Theodore Seaborg (1912 - 1999)

Glenn Seaborg is known for his work with transuranic elements. Here is a brief biography for this influential scientist.

Irving Langmuir (1881 - 1957)

Irving Langmuir is known for his work on thin film and surface chemistry. He was a prolific innovator for General Electric and produced over 60 patents for them.

Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac (1778 - 1850)

Gay-Lussac was a French chemist and physicist known best for his work with gases and the composition of the Earth's atmosphere. He is credited with the discovery of boron. His work with measuring alcohol and water gave us the measure 'degrees Gay Lussac', which is still used in many countries as a measure of alcohol content in drinks.

Marie Sklodowska Curie (1867-1934)

Marie Sklodowska Curie was a Polish-born French scientist. She won the Nobel Prize twice and was famous for her work on radioactivity.

Robert Boyle (1627 - 1691)

Robert Boyle was an Irish-born scientist best known for Boyle's Law of Ideal Gases. He also was a founding fellow of the Royal Society of London and an early supporter of the atomic nature of matter.

Robert Hooke (1635 - 1703)

Robert Hooke has been called the English Da Vinci. He is credited with numerous inventions and design improvements of scientific instrumentation. He was a natural philosopher who valued observation and experimentation.

Sir Joseph John (J. J.) Thomson (1884-1918)

J.J. Thomson discovered the electron while studying the electricity in a cathode ray tube (CRT).

All About Earth Day

Are you wondering what Earth Day is, when it's celebrated, and what people do on Earth Day? Here are the answers to your Earth Day questions!

Gunpowder Facts and History

Black powder is used as a propellant for bullets, as well as for fireworks and rocketry. Learn how gunpowder works and a bit about its history

History of Matches

Fire may have been around since the dawn of civilization, but matches are a fairly recent invention. Learn about the somewhat gruesome history of the chemical or friction match and how antimony and phosphorus are used to start fire.

How Are New Elements Discovered?

Find out if there are any elements left to be discovered and how they would be found.

Silly Putty Chemistry

Learn about the history of Silly Putty, how it works, how to make your own, and what you can do to explore the interesting properties of this viscoelastic liquid.

Old Element Names Quiz

There are several elements which have symbols that don't seem to correspond to their names. That's because the symbols come from old names for the elements. Here's a multiple choice quiz to test your knowledge of the element names.

Chemistry News

This is a directory of website that carry the latest chemistry and other science news. Access is free or requires no registration unless otherwise noted.

Duck and Cover - Civil Defense Classic Film

Learn what schoolchildren were taught to do in the event of an atomic detonation. Here's your chance to view or download the 1951 Civil Defense classic, Duck and Cover. I've provided general information about the movie and a review.

Review of Adventures in the Atomic Age

Nobel laureate Glenn Seaborg's autobiography, published posthumously, relates the development of nuclear science and policy and science education. Seaborg takes the reader through his life while educating the reader about transuranium element research, university administration, the Manhattan Project, nuclear policy, and education.

What Is Earth Day?

Find out what Earth Day is all about, when it is, and how it started.

A Look Inside the Atom

Growth of the atomic theory. From the American Institute of Physics.

American Chemical Society Division of History of Chemistry

This page offers member information, titles of papers at upcoming symposia, tables of contents for the Bulletin for the History of Chemistry, book information, and related links.

Bright Sparcs

This is a registry of over 3,000 people involved in the development of science, technology, and medicine in Australia. References to their archival materials and bibliographic resources are included.

Catalog of Scientific Community in 16th and 17th Centuries

This is Richard Westfall's collection of 631 detailed biographies of members of the scientific community during the 16th and 17th centuries. A searchable database is available.

Chemical Heritage Foundation

For public understanding of chemistry and its contributions.

Chemistry Pages

History of chemistry, general, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry, and how to prepare for examinations. From Rod Beavon, Westminster School.

History of Chemistry, The

This history of chemistry emphasizes Muslim contribution to the development of this science. A brief bibliography is supplied.

History of the Aluminum Cap of the Washington Monument

A technical and administrative achievement. From George J. Binczewski for the Minerals, Metals, & Materials Society.

Institute and Museum of Science

Visit the library and museum in Florence, Italy.

Inventure Place

Online museum from the National Inventors Hall of Fame allows searches for inventors and their inventions.

Linus Pauling Virtual Exhibit

Linus Pauling: A Centenary Exhibit is presented by the Oregon State University Libraries based on materials from the Ava Helen and Linus Pauling Papers.

Nobel e-Museum - The Nobel Prize in Chemistry

The Nobel Foundation provides this chronological archive of Nobel laureates and their research. The site offers search capability.

Radioactivity: Historical Figures

From Access Excellence. Thus far: Becquerel, Curie, Roentgen, and Rutherford.

Science and Technology Odyssey in Cyberspace

The ebook traces the development of science and technology from 20000 BC to 1800 AD. Several time period 'chapters' are available.

Scientific Shortcuts

Essays about chemists and noteworthy chemicals. From Rudolf Oller.

Selected Classic Papers from the History of Chemistry

Includes biographies and pictures. Thematically organized.

Sixty Centuries of Copper

B. Webster Smith provides this general history of copper mining, development of metal-working processes, and copper use over the past six thousand years.

This Week in the History of Chemistry

From Carmen Giunta. Birthdays and accomplishments of chemists with anniversaries of their discoveries.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with A

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter A.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with B

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter B.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with C

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter C.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with D

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter D.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with E

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter E.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with F

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter F.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with G

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter G.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with H

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter H.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with I

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter I.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with J

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter J.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with K

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter K.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with L

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter L.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with M

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter M.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with N

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter N.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with O

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter O.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with P

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter P.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with Q

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter Q.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with R

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter R.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with S

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter S.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with T

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter T.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with U

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter U.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with V

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter V.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with W

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter W.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with X

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter X.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with Y

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter Y.

Famous Chemists - Last Names Starting with Z

This is a list of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, who have last names starting with the letter Z.

Duck and Cover Movie

View the Duck and Cover movie.

Five Element Symbols - Wu Xing

These are the symbols and meanings of the traditional five elements in Wu Xing or Chinese culture.