Learn about the main branches of chemistry, including organic, inorganic, analytical, and physical chemistry. Chemical Engineering is covered here, too. You'll even find lecture notes and course information for specialized fields, like spectroscopy, geochemistry, and astrochemistry.

Chemistry Subjects

Learn about the different subjects of chemistry, such as organic chemistry, biochemistry, chemical engineering, physical chemistry, and analytical chemistry.

What Are the 5 Branches of Chemistry?

Here is a list of the 5 main branches of chemistry, along with an explanation of what each of the branches studies.

Chemistry Basics - What Is Chemistry

Start learning chemistry with the basics. Learn what chemistry is, what chemists do, and why it's important to study chemistry.

Relationship Among Science, Engineering, and Technology

Science, engineering, and technology are distinct disciplines, yet there is considerable overlap among them.

-ology List of Sciences

An -ology is a discipline of study, as indicated by having the -ology suffix. This is a list of science ologies.

Famous Chemists

This is an index of famous chemists and other scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry, arranged alphabetically according to the scientist's last name.

What Is the Difference Between Organic and Inorganic?

Organic compounds and inorganic compounds form the basis for chemistry. Here is a look at the difference between organic and inorganic compounds, plus examples of each type.

Biochemistry Introduction

Biochemistry is the science in which chemistry is applied to the study of living organisms and the atoms and molecules which comprise living organisms. Take a closer look at what biochemistry is and why the science is important.

Organic Chemistry Introduction

Organic chemistry is more than simply the study of carbon or the study of chemicals in living organisms. Take a look at what organic chemistry is, why it is important, and what organic chemists do.

Spectroscopy Introduction

Learn what spectroscopy and spectra are, how spectroscopy works, and what it is used for. This article includes a list of several different spectroscopies, with brief descriptions of their characteristics.

What Is Chemical Engineering? What Do Chemical Engineers Do?

Are you confused about how chemical engineering differs from pure chemistry or other types of engineering? Here's an explanation of what chemical engineering is and what chemical engineers do.

Laws of Chemistry

Here's a reference page that describes the major laws of chemistry.

How to Clean Laboratory Glassware

Cleaning laboratory glassware isn't as simple as washing the dishes. Here's how to wash your glassware so that you won't ruin your chemical solution, laboratory experiment, or the glass.

Chemistry Trivia Quiz

Here's a ten question multiple choice quiz to test your understanding of general chemistry concepts. I'd rate it 'easy'. Are you up for the challenge?

Chemistry Trivia Quiz #2

This quiz is designed to trip up a middle school chemistry student. It focuses on everyday chemistry rather than simple textbook facts. Can you get a perfect score?

Alfred B. Nobel Prizes in Chemistry

This is a list of all of the Nobel laureates in Chemistry. The year, winner name(s), country, and research are included. Links to additional information on the laureates and Nobel foundation are also provided.

Amedeo Avogadro

Looking for information about Amedeo Avogadro, Avogadro's Hypothesis, and Avogadro's Number? It's all here, including a picture of Avogadro and links to other Avogadro and History of Chemistry web sites.

Branches of Chemistry

There are several branches of chemistry. Here is a list of the main branches of chemistry, with an overview of what each discipline studies.

Chemical Structures Archive

Many organic structures, including amino acids and rings, are listed in this directory, with more added all of the time.

Chemistry Glossary

From your About Chemistry guide, this glossary includes terminology from featured articles. Additional chemistry definitions are always being added.

Chemistry of Smoke Machines

Have you ever wondered how smoke machines work or wanted to make your own smoke or fog? Here's your chance to find out how it works. There are separate sections for each type of non-toxic smoke generator, together with important safety tips.

Chemistry Timeline

Find out who did what and when they did it. This timeline chronicles achievements in chemistry and in other disciplines (e.g., physics, mathematics) as they apply to chemistry.

Chromatography with Candy and Coffee Filters

Analyze the dyes used in your favorite candies with paper chromatography using a coffee filter, colored candies, and a salt solution.

Colored Glass Chemistry

Have you ever wondered how glass is colored? Here's a table of common colorants and a description of processes used to color glass.

Crystal Types - Shapes & Structures

Let's take a look at the two main ways to categorize crystal types. I've described the major crystal structures (e.g., triclinic, hexagonal) and how crystals are classified by their properties (e.g., ionic, covalent) and provided links so that you can see examples of crystal types and learn more about crystallography.

Experimental Determination of Avogadro's Number

Did you know that Avogadro's number isn't a mathematically derived unit. The number of particles in a mole of a material is determined experimentally. This easy method uses electrochemistry to make the determination.

Famous Chemists Hangman Game

How well do you know your history? This fun and educational hangman game draws on the names of scientists who made important contributions to the field of chemistry.

Functional Groups - Organic Chemistry Essentials

These are the names and structures of important organic functional groups containing nitrogen or oxygen. Learn 'em, live 'em, love 'em!

How To Do Paper Chromatography with Leaves

Most plants contain several pigment molecules, so experiment with different leaves to see the wide range of pigments.

Periodic Table of the Elements

Click on an element's symbol to get facts about its discovery, word origin, isotopes, properties, uses, and sources.

Qualitative Analysis - Bead Tests

The borax, microcosmic salt, or sodium carbonate bead test may be used to help identify unknown metals. Learn how to perform and interpret the results of this handy analytical test.

Qualitative Analysis - Flame Tests

The flame test is a quick low-tech method of identifying an element by the color of light it yields in a flame. Learn how to perform this test and to interpret the results.

Rock & Mineral Chemistry Quiz

Do you know about the chemistry of rocks and minerals? Here's a ten question quiz you can take to test your knowledge.

Rock Tumbler Instructions

Here are instructions for tumbling rocks using a rotary drum tumbler and a vibratory tumbler, as well as instructions for polishing jewelry in a rock tumbler. Helpful tips are included for improving the polish and troubleshooting problems.

Scientific Law, Hypothesis, Theory Definitions

Words have very specific meanings in chemistry and other sciences. Learn about the difference between a scientific law, hypothesis, and theory. Examples are provided for each term.

Searching for Extraterrestrial Life

There's some serious chemistry involved in the search for life on other planets (or gas clouds or asteroids or comets). However, other disciplines come into play as well, such as robotics, aeronautics, biology, geology, and economics. Here's an overview of how we search for ETs.

Smoke Bomb Instructions

You can easily make a smoke bomb using inexpensive materials to produce safe smoke.

Types of Inorganic Chemical Reactions

There are four main categories of inorganic chemical reactions. Can you name them all? Here they are, along with examples of each type.

Types of Chemical Reactions

Learn about the different types of chemical reactions and get examples of the reaction types.

Chemistry Basics

Learn or teach chemistry. Find lecture notes, laboratory experiments, homework help, and other general chemistry essentials.