Learn about the history of science by reading about the significant scientific events that took place on this day in history.

Reines was an American physicist who was awarded half the 1995 Nobel Prize in Physics for his and Clyde Cowan's detection of the neutrino. A neutrino is a chargeless and nearly massless elementary particle that travels close to the speed of light. They are typically produced by radioactive decay or nuclear reactions.

Wittig was a German chemist who was awarded half the 1979 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work with organic phosphorus compounds. He found that phosphorus ylides could be used as a catalyst to change aldehyde or ketone into an alkene and a triphenylphosphine oxide. This reaction is known as the Wittig reaction.

Miescher was a Swiss physician and biochemist who was the first to isolate nucleic acids. He isolated these from the nucleus of white blood cells. Miescher investigated the chemistry of nucleic acids, but never determined their purpose or function. Nucleic acids would eventually be determined to be the basic carriers of genetic inheritance.

Franck was a German physicist who shared the 1925 Nobel Prize in Physics with Gustav Ludwig Hertz for their experiment to confirm the Bohr model of the atom. They discovered electrons orbited the nucleus of atoms at discrete energy levels.

Richet was a French physiologist who was awarded the 1913 Nobel Prize in Medicine for his research into anaphylaxis. Anaphylaxis is an acute allergic reaction where extremely small doses of an allergen may cause life-threatening anaphylactic shock.





 He was tried as a traitor by the new French government after the Revolution during the 'Reign of Terror' and guillotined. He was formally exonerated less than two years later. Lavoisier was a French chemist who made many major contributions to separating chemistry from alchemy. He stated the first conservation of mass law in chemical reactions and recognized oxygen and hydrogen as elements and demonstrated there was no elemental 'phlogiston' present in materials that burn. He was also the driving force in developing the metric system as a standard form of measurement.He was tried as a traitor by the new French government after the Revolution during the 'Reign of Terror' and guillotined. He was formally exonerated less than two years later.

Leeuwenhoek was a Dutch natural philosopher who is considered the "Father of Microbiology". He was the first to use the microscope to observe and describe single celled organisms, or as he called them, animalcules. He also recorded microscopic observations of bacteria, spermatozoa, the banded pattern of muscle fibers and capillary blood flow.