Jacob is currently a geography intern for About.com. He is an undergraduate student majoring International Development Studies at UCLA. When he graduates in June 2014, he hopes to work for a development organization in Southeast Asia.

Jacob is originally from Los Angeles, California. His interest in geography sprouted from his curiosity about his family history, which features an unexpected confluence of Eastern European Jews, indigenous Filipinos, and African American Buffalo Soldiers. After tracing his lineage to such disparate parts of the world, he developed a healthy obsession with the idea of pursuing a career that would allow him to continue to lead a transnational existence, and hopefully pursue justice along the way.

Since the beginning of his undergraduate experience, Jacob has had the opportunity to travel to Israel, the Palestinian Territories, and Jordan on two occasions. There, he and a group of University of California students interested in conflict resolution had the opportunity to meet with policy makers, activists, and victims of political violence in order to gain a nuanced understanding of how lives are affected by conflict and what stands in the way of a resolution.

After briefly growing despondent about the prospect of achieving peace in the Middle East, Jacob mimicked the Obama Administration's pivot to Asia and shifted his focus toward Southeast Asia, where he continues to analyze the intersection of conflict and development. His current research investigates the impact of transport infrastructure planning on the conflict between ethnic minority communities and the central government in Myanmar.

In addition to the time he spent in the Middle East, Jacob has also studied abroad in South Korea, toured Singapore for a day, met septuagenarian elephants in Thailand, learned how to fashionably wear a longyi in Myanmar, and climbed a volcano in the Philippines.

In addition to traveling the world and writing about it, Jacob enjoys reading the Song of Ice and Fire book series, listening to Korean hip hop, watching documentaries about seemingly mundane topics, eating non-Western foods, hiking, and swimming in the ocean.

Jacob speaks a good amount of Hebrew, a little less Arabic, and much less Tagalog.

"I love using geography as a field of inquiry to discuss the distributions of capital, natural resources, and human rights across space. But almost as much, I also love overhearing geography professors in the hallway fiercely debating what 'space' actually means and why everyone else is wrong about it."