Learn about the history of science by reading about the significant scientific events that took place on this day in history.

Theiler a South African/American virologist who was awarded the 1951 Nobel Prize in Medicine for his work on yellow fever. Theiler and Hugh Smith developed a vaccine for yellow fever just in time for a epidemic in West Africa. The Rockefeller Foundation distributed 28 million doses of this vaccine in 7 years that effectively eliminated the disease.

Klug is British chemist and biophysicist who was awarded the 1982 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the development of crystallographic electron microscopy and discoveries into nucleic acid-protein complexes. Crystallographic electron microscopy uses the same principles of x-ray crystallography, but uses electrons instead of x-rays to determine the structure. The process also takes two images from slightly different angles to create a stereo three dimensional image.

Herrick was an American physician that discovered the blood disease sickle-cell anemia. One of his patients came in with pain in his back and extremities with a slight fever and short of breath. After taking a blood sample he discovered several long sickle shaped red blood cells.

Eijkman was a Dutch physician who was awarded half the 1929 Nobel Prize in Medicine for the discovery of vitamins. He identified the disease beriberi is caused by poor diet and particular foods would prevent the disease. It was later determined beriberi is caused by a vitamin B (thiamine) deficiency.

Melloni was an Italian physicist who was the first to investigate infrared radiation, or radiant heat. He improved the design of the thermopile, which produces a current when heated to detect the radiant heat energy. He created lenses of rock salt (rock salt is transparent to infrared light) to demonstrate this heat could be focused, reflected and polarized just like visible light.

Guldberg was a Norwegian chemist who, together with Peter Waage, discovered the Law of Mass Action. This law relates the rate of a chemical reaction is proportional to the amount of active mass, or concentration, of the reactants. This law became the basis for determining rate constants of chemical reactions. He also developed a general rule where the boiling point of a liquid is approximately 2/3 of the liquid's critical temperature. This rule is known today as "Guldburg's Rule".