Learn about the history of science by reading about the significant scientific events that took place on this day in history.

Johnson was an American biochemist who developed the first artificially produced steroids and considered one of the leaders of the field of organic sythesis. He produced several techniques to simplify the synthesis of several steroids and vitamins.

Pauling was an American chemist who was one of the pioneers of quantum chemistry and mechanics. His research into chemical bonding earned him the 1954 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. He introduced the concept of electronegativity, or the ability of an atom to attract electrons to form bonds. After World War II, he became an outspoken critic of atomic weapons and the effects of fallout. His efforts to eliminate above ground atomic testing earned him the 1962 Nobel Peace Prize.

Kerst was an American physicist who invented the betatron which accelerated electrons through magnetic induction with sufficient energy to cause nuclear transformations. His first betatron produced a stream of electrons at 2.3 MeV. Future versions would use tuned magnets to account for the relativistic speeds of the electrons and produce energies near 300 MeV. Betatrons are used in nuclear and medical research to produce gamma rays and x-rays.

Baird was an American naturalist who would transform the Smithsonian into a major natural history museum. He started the Smithsonian's natural collection with his own large collections and donations from his friend, John Audubon. He encouraged many government survey projects to include training for scientific exploration and collections.

Orville was the younger of the Wright brothers who were the first to accomplish controlled and sustained powered flight. Their aircraft used three axis of control to maintain steady flight: pitch, yaw and roll which is the standard control for planes to this day.

Flamsteed was an English astronomer and the first Astronomer Royal. The Astronomer Royal is a post in the British Royal Household charged with charting stellar positions to aid navigation and the determination of longitude. He was also charged with building the Greenwich Observatory. Flamsteed himself equipped the observatory with instruments from his own pocket which would become a key element of a feud between himself, Issac Newton and Edmund Halley over ownership of the star catalog he produced.