Our blood is a fluid that is also a type of connective tissue. It is composed of blood cells and an aqueous fluid known as plasma. Two major functions of blood include transporting substances to and from our cells and providing immunity and protection against infectious agents. The major components of blood include plasma, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.The image above shows three blood cell types: an activated platelet between a red blood cell (left) and a white blood cell (right).

James Hutton Institute researchers have identified the process by which E. coli bacteria infect plant products. An E. coli O157:H7 bacterium uses its flagellum, a long protrusion used for movement, to pierce through the plant cell wall. The attached bacterium is then able to colonize the surface of the vegetable. Eating these infected plants could cause food poisoning. According to researcher Dr. Nicola Holden, "This work shows the fine detail of how the bacteria bind to plants. We think this mechanism is common to many food-borne bacteria and shows that they can exploit common factors found in both plants and animals to help them grow." Bacteria that remain on the surface of the plant can be removed by washing, however some bacteria are also able to gain access to the internal portions of the plant. The researchers contend that this information is valuable as it demonstrates that E. coli O157:H7 don't just move passively through the food chain, but aggressively interact with plants and animals. Learn more about this study:



Two dangerous types of bacteria, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and E. coli, are able to survive on airplane cabin surfaces for as long as a week. Researchers tested several surfaces including armrests, plastic tray tables, and cloth and leather seat pockets. When the surfaces were exposed to bacteria under conditions similar to those on an airplane, the bacteria were able to survive for days. According to researcher Kiril Vaglenov, "Our data show that both of these bacteria can survive for days on the selected types of surfaces independent of the type of simulated body fluid present, and those pose a risk of transmission via skin contact." MRSA and E. coli can cause serious illness if a person becomes infected by these germs. This study underscores the importance of developing and applying effective disinfection techniques in aircraft cabins. Learn more about this study:

 Harmful Bacteria Can Linger on Airplane Seat-Back Pockets, Armrests for Days (Science Daily)

Hebrew University of Jerusalem researchers have made an interesting discovery that helps answer the question of why an octopus doesn't get tangled up in its tentacles. Unlike the human brain, the octopus brain does not map out the coordinates of its appendages. As a result, octopuses don't know where their arms are exactly. To prevent the octopus's arms from grabbing the octopus, its suckers will not attach to the octopus itself. The researchers state that an octopus produces a chemical in its skin that temporarily prevents the suckers from grabbing. According to the researchers, "The results so far show, and for the first time, that the skin of the octopus prevents octopus arms from attaching to each other or to themselves in a reflexive manner. The drastic reduction in the response to the skin crude extract suggests that a specific chemical signal in the skin mediates the inhibition of sucker grabbing." It was also discovered that an octopus can override this mechanism when necessary, as evidenced by its ability to grab an amputated octopus arm. Learn more about this study:

 How Octopuses Don't Tie Themselves in Knots (Science Daily)

This is a mummified host caterpillar with abdominal bending, parasitized by the Shakira wasp.

Credit: Eduardo Shimbori; CC-BY 4.0 Researchers have discovered several new species of Aleiodes wasps that parasitize caterpillars and actually mummify them. These wasps were found in Ecuador and mummify their victims, specific caterpillars, by injecting their eggs into them. The developing wasp larva feeds on the caterpillar, causing the caterpillar to mummify. Once fully developed, the wasp cuts an opening in the mummified remains and flies away. According to researcher Scott Shaw, "Killing and mummifying caterpillars may sound bad, but these are actually highly beneficial insects. These wasps are helping to naturally control the populations of plant-feeding caterpillars, so they help to sustain the biodiversity of tropical forests." Aleiodes wasps are very small, measuring about 4 to 9 millimeters in length. Many of the 24 newly discovered insect species were named after celebrities and include the Jimmy Fallon wasp and Shakira wasp. Learn more about this study:

