Bacteria are prokaryotic organisms that reproduce asexually. Bacterial reproduction most commonly occurs by a kind of cell division called binary fission . Binary fission results in the formation of two bacterial cells that are genetically identical. Bacterial cells typically contain the following structures: a cell wall, cell membrane, cytoplasm , ribosomes, plasmids, flagella , and a nucleiod region.Most bacteria reproduce by binary fission . During binary fission, the single DNA molecule replicates and both copies attach to the cell membrane.The cell membrane begins to grow between the two DNA molecules. Once the bacterium just about doubles its original size, the cell membrane begins to pinch inward.A cell wall then forms between the two DNA molecules dividing the original cell into two identical daughter cells Binary fission is an effective way for bacteria to reproduce, however it does produce problems. Since the cells produced through this type of reproduction are identical, they are all susceptible to the same types of antibiotics. In order to incorporate some genetic variation, bacteria use a process called recombination. Bacterial recombination can be accomplished through conjugation, transformation, or transduction.Some bacteria are capable of transferring pieces of their genes to other bacteria that they come in contact with. During conjugation , one bacterium connects itself to another through a protein tube structure called a pilus. Genes are transferred from one bacterium to the other through this tube.Some bacteria are capable of taking up DNA from their environment. These DNA remnants most commonly come from dead bacterial cells. During transformation , the bacterium binds the DNA and transports it across the bacterial cell membrane. The new DNA is then incorporated into the bacterial cell's DNA.Transduction is a type of recombination that involves the exchanging of bacterial DNA through bacteriophages . Bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria. There are two types of transduction: generalized and specialized transduction.Once a bacteriophage attaches to a bacterium, it inserts its genome into the bacterium. The viral genome, enzymes, and viral components are then replicated and assembled within the host bacterium. The newly formed bacteriophages then lyse or split open the bacterium, releasing the replicated viruses.During the assembling process however, some of the host's bacterial DNA may become encased in the viral capsid instead of the viral genome. When this bacteriophage infects another bacterium, it injects the DNA fragment from the previous bacterium. This DNA fragment then becomes inserted into the DNA of the new bacterium. This type of transduction is called generalized transduction In specialized transduction , fragments of the host bacterium's DNA become incorporated into the viral genomes of the new bacteriophages. The DNA fragments can then be transfered to any new bacteria that these bacteriophages infect.