Chromatin

Chromatin is a mass of genetic material composed of DNA and proteins that condense to form chromosomes.

Chromosome

A chromosome is a long, stringy aggregate of genes that carries heredity information and is formed from condensed chromatin.

Diploid Cell

A diploid cell is a cell that contains two sets of chromosomes.

DNA

DNA is a type of nucleic acid that contains the genetic information necessary for the production of other cell components and for the reproduction of life.

Gametes

Gametes are reproductive cells. These cells unite to form a new cell called a zygote.

Gene Theory

The Gene Theory is one of the basic principles of biology. The main concept of this theory is that traits are passed from parents to offspring through gene transmission.

Genetics Glossary

This genetics glossary is a good resource for finding succinct, practical, and meaningful biology definitions for various genetics terms.

Haploid Cell

A haploid cell is a cell that contains one complete set of chromosomes.

Mendel's Law of Segregation

Mendel's Law of Segregation states that allele pairs separate during gamete formation, and randomly unite at fertilization.

Genetic Variation

In genetic variation, the alleles of organisms within a population change.

Endoreduplication

Endoreduplication is a process whereby cells grow and enlarge, but do not go through the process of dividing called mitosis.

Genes

Genes are segments of DNA located on chromosomes. Genes contain the codes for the production of specific proteins.

Nucleus

The nucleus is a cell structure that contains hereditary information, or DNA, and controls cellular growth and reproduction.

Parthenogenesis

Parthenogenesis is type of asexual reproduction in which a female a female gamete or egg cell develops into an individual without fertilization.

Mendel's Law of Independent Assortment

Mendel's law of independent assortment states that allele pairs separate independently during the formation of gametes.

True-breeding Plant

A true-breeding plant is one that, when self-fertilized, only produces offspring with the same traits.

Phenotype

Phenotype is defined as an organism's expressed physical traits. It is determined by an individual's genotype and expressed genes, random genetic variation, and environmental influences.