Resources for finding the definitions of common biology related terms.

Biology Word Dissections

By performing biology word dissections, even the most complex terms can be understood. Difficult biology words and terms can be made easy to understand by becoming familiar with common prefixes and suffixes used in biology.

Difficult Biology Words

Understanding difficult biology words is not impossible. Become familiar with how to study difficult biology terms.

Cell Biology Glossary

This cell biology glossary is a good resource for finding succinct, practical, and meaningful biology definitions for various cell biology terms.

Genetics Glossary

This genetics glossary is a good resource for finding succinct, practical, and meaningful biology definitions for various genetics terms.

Mitosis Glossary

This mitosis glossary is a good resource for finding succinct, practical, and meaningful biology definitions for common mitosis terms.

Anatomy

Anatomy is the study of the structure of organisms. Structure and function go hand-in-hand, therefore anatomy is always linked to physiology.

Angiosperms

Angiosperms, or flowering plants, are the most numerous of all the divisions in the Plant Kingdom.

Cell Theory

The Cell Theory is one of the basic principles of biology. It states that all living things are composed of cells.

Cytoplasm

The cytoplasm is a clear substance that consists of all of the contents outside of the nucleus of a membrane bound cell.

Double Helix

Double helix is a term used to describe the structure of DNA. The shape is similar to that of spiral staircase.

Homeostasis

Homeostasis is the ability to maintain a constant internal environment in response to environmental changes.

Laws of Thermodynamics

The laws of thermodynamics are important unifying principles of biology. These principles govern the chemical processes (metabolism) in all biological organisms.

Physiology

Physiology is the study of the functions of physical and chemical processes in organisms.

Figs

Information on fig plants including the common fig and caprifig.

Cell Membrane - A Cell Biology Definition

The cell membrane is a thin semi-permeable membrane that surrounds the cytoplasm of a cell, enclosing its contents.