Zomia, also known as the Southeast Asian massif, refers to an expansive, rugged swath of mainland Southeast Asia that have not been fully incorporated into nation-states. Although it is situated across several modern nation-states, the governments of these states wield little authority over these mountainous areas and their people. The term was first proposed in 2002 by the Dutch historian Willem van Schendel, who derived the term from the word "zomi," meaning "highlander" in many of the languages of the people who populate this area.

According to Van Schendel's original definition, Zomia includes Tibet and other southwestern parts of China, northern and northeastern parts of India, most of Nepal and Myanmar, all of Bhutan and Laos, and bits of Thailand and Bangladesh. The term particularly refers to areas that are above 300 meters in altitude. Zomia covers more than 2.5 million square kilometers and is home is home to approximately 100 million people.

Purpose of the Term Zomia



 In coining the term Zomia, Van Schendel sought to challenge the notion that national boundaries are always the most helpful way of dividing the world. In the case of Southeast Asia, Van Schendel argues that the most important geographical boundaries are those between highlands and lowlands.

Historically, ancient empires and modern nation states of Southeast Asia formed in lowland plains, which are more conducive to surplus agriculture, urban development, international trade, and, most importantly, the ability of the state to control people. The cultures of these empires and states still dominate the lowlands of Southeast Asia.

Zomia, on the other hand, is characterized by inaccessible highlands and plateaus, which act as physical barriers against the encroachment of lowland authorities and cultures. Thus, the communities that inhabit Zomia, sometimes referred to as "hill tribes," have been practically beyond the reach of any government. Although these communities, including the Hmong, the Wa, the Karen, the Lahu, and the PaO are ethnically, religiously, culturally and linguistically distinct from one another, they are unified in that they remain unassimilated to the lowland societies with whom they share national boundaries.

The communities of Zomia remain relatively unaffected by the advent of practices that spurred the development of "modern civilization" in Southeast Asia, including wet-rice cultivation, literacy, and Buddhism. (Scott)  Zomian communities retain many of the same agricultural practices, social and familial structures, and animist beliefs that their ancestors practiced as far back as two millennia ago.

"The Art of Not Being Governed"

From the perspective of a city-dwelling observer, it would seem that the people of Zomia retain their indigenous traditions and remain unassimilated to their lowland neighbors because they are unexposed to modernity. However, anthropologist and political scientist James Scott offers an alternative theory in his book The Art of Not Being Governed: An Anarchist History of Upland Southeast Asia. Scott points out that rather than being excluded from civilization, the people of Zomia consciously reject "modern" lowland lifestyles and actively avoid contact with central governments. Zomian communities recognize that if they were absorbed into the jurisdiction of any national government, they would be subjected to "the oppressions of state-making," which include slavery, conscription, taxes, corvee labor, epidemics, and warfare.

Thus, Scott presents the history of Zomia as an alternative history of the evolution of human civilization, challenging the notion that human life has improved as societies have grown larger and more complex. For the people of Zomia, Scott argues, civilized life is a burden and a menace.

Scott refers to the collection of state-avoiding practices used by Zomian communities as "the art of not being governed." These practices include swidden agriculture, smuggling, and oral traditions. Scott even claims that Zomian communities enforce a rule of "alliteracy" -- intentional illiteracy that prevents Zomian communities from keeping records that could be used by state bureaucracies to control them. These collective practices are meant to protect the self-sufficiency and mobility of Zomian communities in their effort to evade the reach of the state.

To avoid the risk being sold out to the state by their leaders, many of the communities of Zomia are fiercely nonhierarchical. For instance, the Wa, who inhabit their own semi-autonomous region in the northern highlands of Myanmar, limit ostentatious feast-throwing and forbid the wealthy from offering sacrifices that might be seen as giving them chief-like status. The Kachin, who also live in northern Myanmar, also have a reputation for killing chiefs who are seen as overreaching. The Lahu, of China's Yunnan province, have no level of political organization above the hamlet. These enforced anti-hierarchical traditions actively prevent a larger, more complex society from emerging.

Several scholars have contested Scott's claim that the traditions of the people of Zomia emerged from conscious anarchist attitudes toward the state. Some anthropologists point out that although many Zomian communities see the state as an oppressor, they still use the state as a source of goods, services, protection.

Others point out that there are other highland societies throughout the world, such as those in Borneo, that have developed the same cultural characteristics as Zomians in the absence of a predatory lowland state. It is possible, therefore, that many of the traditions that Scott explains as intentional and political are, in reality, circumstantial.

Scott's claim that the the Hmong people discarded literacy along with state authority is contested by the Hmong people themselves.

Since World War II, distance-defying technologies such as the airplane and the internet have enabled lowland central governments in Southeast Asia to bring Zomian peoples into the fold through conscription, taxation, and the provision of services. Nonetheless, several Zomian communities continue to openly defy the reach of the state, including the Wa, Hmong, Karen, and several other communities that are in an active state of conflict with the states vying for power over them.

In 2007, Van Schendel broadened the geographical scope of Zomia to include large areas of Afghanistan, Pakistan, northern India (Kashmir), Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and western China (Xinjiang). This broadening of the scope of Zomia was intended to characterize the anti-government conflicts taking place in these regions as part of the anarchist tradition of Southeast Asian highland communities.

However, whether these military conflicts are part of the same anarchist effort as the practice of swidden agriculture and "alliteracy" remains a matter of scholarly debate.

"The Chronicle Review." The Chronicle of Higher Education. Web. 10 Apr. 2014. <https://chronicle.com/article/The-Battle-Over-Zomia/128845/+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us>.

Scott, James C. The Art of Not Being Governed: An Anarchist History of Upland Southeast Asia. New Haven: Yale UP, 2009. Print.