The cell cycle is the complex sequence of events by which cells grow and divide. In eukaryotic cells, this process includes a series of four distinct phases. These phases consist of the. The G, S, and Gphases of the cell cycle are collectively referred to as interphase . The dividing cell spends most of its time in interphase as it grows in preparation for cell division. The mitosis phase of the cell division process involves the separation of nuclear chromosomes , followed by cytokinesis (division of the cytoplasm forming two distinct cells). At the end of the mitotic cell cycle, two distinct daughter cells are produced. Each cell contains identical genetic material.The time it takes for a cell to complete one cell cycle varies depending on the type of cell. Some cells, such as blood cells in bone marrow skin cells, and cells lining the stomach and intestines, divide rapidly and constantly. Other cells divide when needed to replaced damaged or dead cells. These cell types include cells of the kidneys , liver, and lungs . Still other cell types, including nerve cells , stop dividing once mature.The two main divisions of the cell cycle are interphase and mitosis.During this segment of the cell cycle, a cell doubles its cytoplasm and synthesizes DNA . It is estimated that a dividing cell spends about 90-95 percent of its time in this phase.In mitosis and cytokinesis , the contents of the dividing cell are equally distributed between two daughter cells. Mitosis has four phases: Prophase, Metaphase, Anaphase, and Telophase.Once a cell has completed the cell cycle, it goes back into the Gphase and repeats the cycle again. Cells in the body can also be placed in a non-dividing state called theat any point in their life. Cells may remain in this stage for very long periods of time until they are signaled to progress through the cell cycle as initiated by the presence of certain growth factors or other signals. Cells that contain genetic mutations are permanently placed in the Gphase to ensure that they are not replicated. When the cell cycle goes wrong, normal cell growth is lost. Cancer cells may develop, which gain control of their own growth signals and continue to multiply unchecked.Not all cells divide through the process of mitosis. Organisms that reproduce sexually also undergo a type of cell division called meiosis . Meiosis occurs in sex cells and is similar in process to mitosis. After a complete cell cycle in meiosis however, four daughter cells are produced. Each cell contains one half the number of chromosomes as the original parent cell. This means that sex cells are haploid cells. When haploid male and female gametes unite in a process called fertilization , they form one diploid cell called a zygote.