Genetics Basics

Genetics is the study of heredity or inheritance. These resources will assist in the understanding of basic genetics.

Blood Type

The presence or absence of certain identifiers on the surface of red blood cells determine human blood type.

Genetic Code

The genetic code is the information in DNA and RNA that determines amino acid sequences in protein synthesis.

Gene Mutation

A gene mutation is any change that occurs in the DNA. These changes can be beneficial to, have some effect on, or be seriously detrimental to an organism.

Chromosomes and Sex

What is the relationship between chromosomes and sex? Sex is determined by the presence or absence of certain chromosomes.

Sex-Linked Traits

Sex-linked traits originate from genes found on sex chromosomes. Hemophilia is an example of a common sex-linked disorder that is an X-linked recessive trait.

Sex Chromosome Abnormalities

Sex chromosome abnormalities occur as a result of chromosome mutations brought on by mutagens or problems that occur during meiosis.

How Science Has Built a Better Thanksgiving Turkey

For several decades researchers have been using science to build a better Thanksgiving turkey. These techniques involve selective breeding and nutrition management.

Reproduction in Animals: Sexual Reproduction

An introduction to the mechanisms of sexual reproduction in animals.

Reproduction in Animals: Asexual Reproduction

An introduction to the mechanisms of asexual reproduction in animals.

Sexual Reproduction: Fertilization

Information on internal and external modes of fertilization.

Blood Types Tutorial

Learn about human ABO markers and Rh factors. There is also a blood types problem set to complete for review.

DNA From the Beginning

"DNA From The Beginning is an animated, online textbook on genetics and molecular biology."

DNA Spirals

What does DNA look like? See for yourself.

The Interactive Fly

This site is a cyberspace guide to Drosophila genes and their roles in development. There is also a cool collection of Drosophila images.

Genetic Recombination

In genetic recombination, genes are recombined to produce organisms with new gene combinations. Genetic diversity within organisms is attained through genetic recombination.