Now that school has started (okay, we know a few people who are still on summer vacation and are obviously gloating), let's take a look at the Bio Fab Four, four sites that are particularly useful to biology teachers and students.

Access Excellence Fellows Collection

 Access Excellence pioneered online communities for biology teachers. Each year, a select group of Fellows participates in activities designed to foster communication among teachers. Fellows submitted their favorite projects and classroom activities to the collection on the site. The collection contains archives of participants from the past three years. Projects and descriptions range from acid rain to use of the scientific method for data collection and analysis.



 Eisenhower National Clearinghouse's Innovator of the Month

 Each month, the National Clearinghouse features a unique science teacher. Educators are selected for their dedication and willingness to "reinvent" the learning process with their students. Fascinating stories with many insightful ideas. It is often easy to become wedded to a particular way of doing things, but these innovators have pushed the envelope of science education to help their students succeed.



 The New Scientist Magazine

 New Scientist is a general science magazine that contains a plethora of informative and insightful articles. Topics have ranged from Newton's apples: Detective work identifies true tree clones to Elixir of youth: Yeast clue to the secret of aging.



 The Interactive Frog Dissection

 What list would be complete without a dissection! Produced by the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia, the Interactive Frog Dissection, as the name implies, allows students to "virtually dissect" a frog. Step by step pictures show the proper technique for the dissection. Great as a stand-alone primer on dissection or in conjunction with a "physical" dissection.



 We hope you have enjoyed our Bio Fab Four. Do you have a fab recommendation? Come on over to the Biology Forum and share your thoughts, opinions and feelings.