Information and resources on the anatomy of the human body. Learn about the brain, heart, blood vessels and more.

Heart Anatomy

The heart is the organ that helps supply blood and oxygen to all parts of the body. Heart anatomy focuses on the structure and function of this amazing organ.

Blood Vessels

Blood vessels are intricate networks of hollow tubes that transport blood throughout the entire body.

Lymphatic Vessels

Lymphatic vessels filter and transport fluid away from tissues before returning it to the blood. This helps to maintain normal blood volume and pressure.

The Lungs

The lungs are the organs responsible for breathing, the alternate inhalation and exhalation of air. The heart and lungs work together to provide oxygen to the cells of the body.

The Spinal Cord 

The spinal cord is a cylindrical shaped bundle of nerve fibers that convey messages to and from the brain. The spongy spinal cord is protected by the irregular shaped bones of the spinal column called vertebrae.

Spleen

The spleen performs the valuable function filtering blood of pathogens and damaged cells. It is an organ of the lymphatic system that aids in the immune response against pathogens in the blood.

Thymus

The thymus is a small glandular structure that regulates the immune system through the production of specific immune cells called lymphocytes.

Lymph Nodes

Lymph nodes are specialized structures in the body that filter lymph fluid of harmful pathogens, cancer cells, and cellular waste.

Kidneys

The main role of the kidneys is to filter blood of toxins and produce urine. The kidneys also perform several regulatory functions that are vital to life.

Cerebral Cortex

The cerebral cortex is the layer of the brain often referred to as gray matter. It is the outer portion of the cerebrum.

Pulmonary Artery

Information and resources pertaining to the pulmonary artery of the heart.

Animal Tissues: Epithelial Tissue

Explore the structure and function of animal tissues, including epithelial tissue.

Anatomical Directional Terms and Body Planes

Anatomical directional terms and body planes describe the locations of structures in relation to other structures or locations in the body.

Nervous Tissue

Explore the structure and function of nervous tissue and neurons, also called nerve cells.

Nervous Tissue - Glial Cells

Explore the structure and function of nervous tissue glial cells.

Atlas of Human Anatomy in Cross Section

"A color atlas of cross sectional anatomy in the axial plane which serves as an anatomic reference text. Contents includes 172 annotated color plates of the human body."

Atlas of Microscopic Anatomy

Atlas of the major systems of the body. Includes detailed micrograph images of various body tissues and cells.

Kimball's Biology Pages: Vision

Learn about vision and the anatomy of the human eye.

Master Muscle List

"Easy reference for accessing information on the origin, insertion, nerve supply, and action of a given muscle."

Skeletal Muscles of the Human Body

Detailed information on muscles, including the names, origin, insertion, and action.

Skull Anatomy Tutorial

Contains clickable images for learning the parts of the skull. Skulls can be seen from anterior, lateral, inferior, and interior positions.

Virtual Tour of the Ear

Contains detailed information about the ear and hearing mechanisms, disorders, and audiologic rehabilitation.

The Visible Embryo

See the first four weeks of human development unfold before your eyes!

The Visible Human Project

The goal of this project is to create whole "anatomically detailed, three-dimensional representations of the male and female human body."

The Heart

The heart is the organ that supplies blood and oxygen to all parts of the body.

Anatomy of the Heart

Learn about this amazing organ that supplies blood to the entire body.

Anatomy of the Heart: Aorta

Information and resources pertaining to the aorta of the heart.

Myocardium

Information and resources pertaining to the myocardium of the heart.

Anatomy of the Heart: Pericardium

Information and resources pertaining to the pericardium of the human heart.

Heart Nodes

Heart nodes are specialized tissues that behave as both muscle and nervous tissue. The sinoatrial node and the atrioventricular node control electrical impulses in the heart.

Anatomy of the Heart: Valves

Information and resources pertaining to the human heart valves.

Atria of the Heart

The atria of the heart receive blood returning to the heart from other areas of the body.

Ventricles of the Heart

The ventricles of the heart function to pump blood to the entire body.

Brachiocephalic Artery

The brachiocephalic artery supplies oxygenated blood from the aorta to the head, neck and arm regions of the body.

Cardiac Cycle

The cardiac cycle is the sequence of events that occurs when the heart beats.

Phases of the Cardiac Cycle

The cardiac cycle is the cycle of events that occur as the heart contracts.

Carotid Arteries

The carotid arteries are blood vessels that supply blood to the head, neck and brain.

Coronary Arteries

Information and resources pertaining to the coronary arteries of the heart.

Vena Cavae

The superior vena cava and inferior vena cava are the two largest veins in the body.

Capillary

A capillary is an extremely small blood vessel located within the tissues of the body.

Vein

A vein is an elastic blood vessel that transports blood from various regions of the body to the heart. Veins can be categorized into pulmonary, systemic, superficial, and deep veins.

Artery

An artery is an elastic blood vessel that transports blood away from the heart. Pulmonary and systemic arteries are two main types of arteries.

Microcirculation

Microcirculation deals with the circulation of blood from the heart to arteries, capillaries and veins.

Anatomy of the Brain - Pons

The pons serves as a communications and coordination center between the two hemispheres of the brain.

Amygdala

The amygdala is an almond shaped mass of nuclei located deep within the temporal lobe of the brain.

Medulla Oblongata

The medulla oblongata is a portion of the hindbrain that controls autonomic functions such as breathing, digestion and heart rate.

Human Anatomy Quiz

What is the largest gland in the body? Test your knowledge of human anatomy. Take the Human Anatomy Quiz !

Thalamus

The thalamus is a large, dual lobed mass of grey matter buried under the cerebral cortex. It is involved in sensory perception and regulation of motor functions.

Connective Tissue

Explore the structure and function of animal tissues, including connective tissue.

Anatomy of the Brain - Cerebral Cortex

The cerebral cortex is the outer covering of the cerebrum. It is the layer of the brain often referred to as gray matter.

Anatomy of the Brain - Cerebellum

The cerebellum is the area of the hindbrain that controls motor movement coordination, balance, equilibrium and muscle tone.

Muscle Tissue

Explore the structure and function of cardiac, smooth, and skeletal muscle tissue.

Salivary Glands and Saliva

Find information on salivary glands, saliva, mucus and their function in digestion.

Frontal Lobes

The frontal lobes are one of the four main lobes or regions of the cerebral cortex.

Occipital Lobes

The occipital lobes are positioned at the back region of the cerebral cortex and are the main centers for visual processing.

Hypothalamus

About the size of a pearl, the hypothalamus directs a multitude of important functions in the body. It is the control center for many autonomic functions and also regulates endocrine system hormones.

Anatomy of the Brain - Cerebrum

The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain. It encompasses about two-thirds of the brain mass and lies over and around most of the structures of the brain.

Broca's Area

Broca's area is one of the main areas of the cerebral cortex responsible for producing language.

Corpus Callosum

The corpus callosum is a thick band of nerve fibers that divides the cerebrum into left and right hemispheres.

Hippocampus

The hippocampus is the part of the brain that is involved in memory forming, organizing, and storing. It is a limbic system structure that is particularly important in forming new memories and connecting emotions and senses, such as smell and sound, to memories.

Temporal Lobes

The temporal lobes are one of the four main lobes or regions of the cerebral cortex. The temporal lobes play an important role in organizing sensory input, auditory perception and memory.

Diencephalon

The diencephalon, along with the telencephalon comprise the two major divisions of forebrain.

Pineal Gland

The pineal gland is a pine cone shaped gland of the endocrine system that produces several important hormones including melatonin.

Third Ventricle

The third ventricle is part of a network of linked cavities in the brain that extend to form the central canal of the spinal cord.

Thyroid Gland

The thyroid gland and associated parathyroid glands are endocrine system structures that regulate vital processes in the body through the secretion of hormones.

Bones

Bones are a type of mineralized connective tissue containing collagen and calcium phosphate. Bones provide support and protection for body organs.

Bone Marrow

Bone marrow is the soft tissue found inside bones that functions mainly to produce red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.