Biology games and quizzes can be an effective way to learn about the fun-filled world of biology. Try these biology games and quizzes and find out how much you really know about biology.

Biology Games and Quizzes

Try these biology games and quizzes and find out how much you really know about biology.

Cell Anatomy Quiz

Do you know which cellular structure houses DNA? Test your knowledge of eukaryotic cell anatomy. Take the Cell Anatomy Quiz.

Anatomy Arcade

Learn about human anatomy and have fun while doing it. Try your luck at the Whack-A-Bone or Poke-A-Muscle game, or even Digestive Jigsaw

Human Anatomy Quiz

Take the Human Anatomy Quiz and find out how much you know about the human body.

African Americans in Science Quiz

Test your knowledge of African Americans in the field of science.

Biology Prefixes and Suffixes Quiz

Take the Biology Prefixes and Suffixes Quiz and discover the meanings of difficult biology terms.

Predator or Prey Game

Play the Predator or Prey game! In this game you must choose the correct predator or prey for each question.

Cellular Respiration Quiz

Take the Cellular Respiration Quiz and find out how much you know about cellular respiration.

Genetics Quiz: Mendelian Genetics

Think you know all there is to know about mendelian genetics? Take this genetics quiz.

Heart Anatomy Quiz

Take the Heart Anatomy Quiz and find out how much you know about the heart.

Human Brain Quiz

Take the Human Brain Quiz and discover how much you know about the brain.

Humorous Biology Definitions

Take a humorous look at biology terms and their possible meanings.

Mitosis Quiz

Take the MItosis Quiz and find out how much you know about mitotic cell division.

Photosynthesis Quiz

Did you know that plants are not the only organisms capable of photosynthesis? Take the Photosynthesis Quiz and find out how much you know about the photosynthesis.

Virtual Frog Dissection Quiz

Think you know all there is to know about frog dissections? Take this virtual frog dissection quiz.

Biology Games and Quizzes - Wrong Answer

Use these biology games and quizzes to test your biology trivia knowledge.