Online dissections provide an opportunity to experience animal dissections in a unique manner. Dissections provide a way for students to learn about the internal and external anatomical structures of animals. By taking a hands-on learning approach, students can get a real sense of the relationships between organismal structures.



 For many students however, dissections can be very disturbing. Online dissections provide the means to experience actual dissections without all of the mess. Some online dissections provide visual images along with step-by-step instructions on how to dissect a particular animal. Other online dissections provide diagrams and pictures that display certain anatomical structures.



Best Online Dissections



 There are a number of online dissections on the net. Here are some of my favorites:



Cockroach Dissection

 Photographs of a cockroach dissection. Also contains information and pictures of cockroach parasites.



Cow's Eye Dissection

 Step-by-step instructions, tips, and hints on how to do a dissection of a cow's eye.



Earthworm Dissection

 View images of an earthworm dissection presented by the University of Wisconsin - La Crosse.



The Interactive Frog Dissection Tutorial

 The title says it all! Dissect a frog without smelling any formaldehyde.



Rat Anatomy Tutorial

 This tutorial covers rat anatomy with images from an actual dissection.



Sheep Brain Dissection

 A step-by-step guide on how to dissect a brain. Learn about brain anatomy, structure, and function.



Virtual Cat Dissection

 Learn about cat external anatomy, skeletal, muscular, respiratory systems and more.



Virtual Fetal Pig Dissection

 View a simulated dissection of a fetal pig. You must have Shockwave plug-ins to view animations.



Virtual Frog Dissection

 This online dissection walks you through the process of dissecting a frog. It also covers internal and external frog anatomy.



Virtual Mouse Necropsy

 Instructional guide for the dissection of a mouse. Includes detailed diagrams.



More Online Dissections Information



 For more information on online dissections see:



Virtual Frog Anatomy

 Guide for identifying anatomical structures in the male and female frog. Images are labeled.



Virtual Frog Dissection Quiz

 Think you know all there is to know about frog dissections? This quiz is designed to help you identify internal and external structures in the male and female frog.

