Yes, this is an actual word. What does it mean? Biology can be filled with words that sometimes seem incomprehensible. By "dissecting" these words into discrete units, even the most complex terms can be understood. To demonstrate this concept, let's begin by performing biology word dissections on the word above.To perform our biology word dissection, we'll need to proceed carefully. First, we come to the prefix, orwhich means lung. Next, is, meaning extreme, and, meaning small. Now we come to, which refers to silicon, andwhich refers to the mineral particles that make up a volcano. Then we have, a derivative of the Greek word konis meaning dust. Finally, we have the suffixwhich means affected with. Now lets rebuild what we have dissected:Considering the prefixand the suffix, we can determine that the lungs are affected with something. But what? Breaking down the rest of the terms we get extremely smallsiliconand volcanicdustparticles. Thus, pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis is a disease of the lungs resulting from the inhalation of very fine silicate or quartz dust. That wasn't so difficult, now was it?Now that we've honed our dissection skills, let's try some frequently used biology terms. For instance:refers to joints andmeans inflammation. Arthritis is the inflammation of a joint(s).means red andmeans cell. Erythrocytes are red blood cells.Okay, let's move on to more difficult words. For instance:Dissecting, we have, pertaining to electricity,meaning brain, andmeaning record. Together we have an electric brain record or EEG. Thus, we have a record of brain wave activity using electrical contacts.Individuals with this disorder suffer from delusions and hallucinations.means split andmeans mind.These are ancient bacteria that live in extremely hot and acidic environments.means heat, next you have (-acid) , and finallymeans love. Together we have heat and acid lovers.Once you understand the commonly used prefixes and suffixes , obtuse words are a piece of cake! Now that you know how to apply the word dissection technique, I'm sure you'll be able to determine the meaning of the word thigmotropism ( thigmo tropism ).