There are twenty-nine national member teams of the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), the global governing body for football (a.k.a. soccer) that should not be FIFA members and should not be able to compete in the World Cup because they are not independent countries. These twenty-nine entities do not meet the requirements to be an independent country

The most prominent of these non-countries that is participating in the 2006 World Cup is England. England was the only qualifying team among the four teams allocated to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland proper (not including the plethora of territorial teams from that country), it could be perhaps considered as representing the entire UK in the World Cup in 2006.

It is not appropriate for the UK to have four teams; it could be argued that thus, the United States deserves fifty teams - one for each state or Canada deserves thirteen teams - one for each province and territory. Since that is not the case, then the United Kingdom should have one FIFA team and thus England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales should merge to form one United Kingdom team.

Here is the listing of the non-countries that belong to FIFA but should not have teams because they are not countries (along with the reason)...

American Samoa - a territory of the United States of America

 Anguilla - a territory of the United Kingdom

 Aruba - a territory of the Netherlands

 Bermuda - a territory of the United Kingdom

 British Virgin Islands - a territory of the United Kingdom

 Cayman Islands - a territory of the United Kingdom

 Chinese Taipei (Taiwan) - not a country; see my article Is Taiwan a Country?

 Cook Islands - a territory of New Zealand

 England -part of the United Kingdom; see my article England is Not a Country

 Faroe Islands - a territory of Denmark

 French Guiana - part of France

 Guadeloupe - a territory of France

 Guam - a territory of the United States of America

 Hong Kong - part of China

 Macau - part of China

 Martinique - a territory of France

 Montserrat - a territory of the United Kingdom

 Netherlands Antilles - a territory of the Netherlands

 New Caledonia - a territory of France

 Northern Ireland - part of the United Kingdom

 Palestine - not a country; see my article Palestine is Not a Coutnry.

 Puerto Rico - a territory of the United States; see my article Puerto Rico is Not a Country.

 Saint-Martin - a territory of France

 Scotland - part of the United Kingdom; see my article Scotland is Not a Country

 Sint Maarten - a territory of the Netherlands

 Tahiti - a territory of France

 Turks and Caicos Islands - a territory of the United Kingdom

 U.S. Virgin Islands - a territory of the United States

 Wales - part of the United Kingdom