Whether you're studying for the National Geographic Bee, AP Geography, A-Levels, an undergraduate degree, a Ph.D., or just want to know more about geography, this is the place to do it.

American Travel Habits: Is Geography Holding Us Back?

It's commonly acknowledged that Americans struggle with geography, especially with their knowledge of places outside the U.S. What geographic reasons keep Americans from traveling abroad?

Geographic Literacy in a Globalized World: Without it, We're Lost

In the United States, we've struggled with geography's place in education. It's not part of the core of our education system as it is in many other countries. Learn about the importance of geographic literacy in our ever-connected planet.

Gamma Theta Upsilon

Gamma Theta Upsilon (GTU) is an honor society for students and scholars of geography. Academic institutions with geography departments across North America have active GTU chapters.

My Geography Bee Experience

A sixth grader from Ohio shares his experience in the school geography bee.

Selecting a Geography Program

How to choose a undergraduate or graduate program in geography.

Why Study Geography?

Discover the answer to the question - Why Study Geography. Learn why you should study geography in school. From the About.com expert Geography GuideSite.

Regional Geography

Regional geography is a branch of geography that involves the study of specific regions of the earth. Regional geographers become experts on all aspects of their region - the language, cultural, physical features, cities, and more. Learn all about regional geography from this About.com Geography GuideSite article.

Two Schools of Geographic Thought

An overview of the Berkeley School and Midwest School of geographic thought in the history of geography.

Top Ten Reasons to Study Geography

A list of ten fun reasons to study geography, from Marcia Holstrom of San Jose State's Center for Geographic Education.

James Michener on Geography

Celebrated author James Michener wrote about his thoughts about geography in an essay called The Queenly Science in 1970.

Geography Journals - A Listing of Key Journals in the Field o...

A listing of the most important academic journals and magazines devoted to or related to geography, from your About.com Guide to Geography.

Geography for Kids

Geography information and resources for kids. This page is all about geography for kids.

Definition of Geography - Defining Geography

Gain a better understanding of geography and its importance through this thorough definition of geography from the About.com Guide to Geography.

Geography Degree - Geography Degree Requirements

Learn all about typical requirements of an undergraduate degree in geography from a college or university, from your About.com expert Guide to Geography. Getting a geography degree is an interesting and educational process.

Top Geographic News of 2007

The most important items of geographic news from 2007, from Matt Rosenberg, your About.com expert Guide to Geography.

Geography 101 - Geography Overview

An overview of geography and the geography site at About.com, from Matt Rosenberg, geographer of the world.

Definitions of Geography

A large collection of quotes of definitions of geography from various sources, compiled by your About.com Guide to Geography.

Why Place Name Geography is Important and a Call to Action

Learn why memorizing the location and names of places on the planet is an important geography skill. Your About.com Guide to Geography issues a call to action in regard to place name memorization.

Branches of Geography

The field of geography is a vast and wondrous academic field with thousands of researchers working in dozens of interesting branches of geography. Learn about these interesting branches of geography from your About.com Guide to Geography.

Best Geography Websites of 2005

The top ten geography websites of 2005, as selected by your About.com Guide to Geography.

AP Human Geography - Overview of AP Human Geography

A comprehensive overview of the Advanced Placement examination and course in human geography, also known as AP Human Geography, from your About.com Guide to Geography.

All About Geography

An overview and introduction to the discipline of geography, from your About.com Guide to Geography.

The Four Traditions of Geography

The four traditions of geography were created by geographer William D. Pattison: 1. spatial tradition, 2. area studies tradition, 3. man-land tradition, and 4. earth science tradition.

Free Online Email Geography Course

Want to learn more about the basics of geography? Well, look no further! Take my free email online Geography 101 eCourse to learn about the basics of the discipline.

Geographic Education and Public Policy

An address about the impact of geography by famous geographer Harm de Blij.

Geography in the British School System

Guest writer Ben Clifford describes the state of geographic education in the United Kingdom.

How To Find a Graduate Program in Geography

From your About.com Guide, simple steps to help you find the right grad school.

Preparing for the National Geographic Bee

Tips and techniques to help you win at the local, state, or national Geography Bee.

Opportunities for Aspiring Geographers

Discover six great opportunities for young geographers who are just getting their start in the world; find out what you can do to get your foot in the door in the world of geography!