Guest Column by Caitlin Dempsey, Editor of GISLounge

 Dateline: 2/16/03 As a lifelong geographer and the editor of GISLounge, I've always realized that geography is fun, fascinating and relevant. Still, I frequently run into people who have lingering, distasteful memories of rote memorization of capitols or still remember what the major exports of various countries are. As Reginald Golledge recently remarked in his article WANTED: Professional Geographers...Now More than Ever! many geographers are reluctant to admit they are geographers for fear of such reactions. The root of this apparent misunderstanding of the discipline of geography starts with the introduction of geography at the elementary school level. Refreshingly, there are teachers who are seeking innovative and sometimes whimsical ways to spark excitement in their students when learning geography. Presented here are a few examples of these programs. Trucker Buddy Program

 At the Jurupa Vista Elementary School in Fontana, California, third and fourth graders write letters to trucker Kurt Plummer. In return, he has been sending the students postcards and photos from his journeys across the United States. This program brings to the students a more personalized introduction to the geography of the United States as seen through the eyes of Mr. Plummer. Baking Geography

Valeta Pafford decided to make geography an edible lesson for her fourth grade students at Lafayette School in New Jersey. The class baked a large, New Jersey shaped cake which was then decorated with different colored frosting to identify the different counties. Landmarks were then added with different types of candies. Virtual Eye

 Students from Whittier, California will be treated to a unique high-tech geography experience provided by Keyhole, the creators of Earthviewer. Students will be able to follow the travels of former Mayor Michael Sullens and accompanying group as they trek to Whittier, Alaska. During the travels, students will be able to view a virtual path of the trip via aerial imagery. Listed here are resources to finding innovative lesson plans, ideas and games for teaching geography geared towards all levels of education. Not just for the classroom, teaching children about geography is an activity parents can also engage their children in at home, on the road or while on vacation.

Geographic Education

An excellent starting place is right here at About Geography. Matt Rosenberg has compiled a list of resources on geography education. Making Geography Fun

Simple games families can play that teach children about geography. Published by FamilyFun magazine. Geography Ideas

From the Teaching Ideas for Primary Teachers site. This British site provides some interesting ideas to motivate elementary level students to learn about geography. Virtual Geography Department

Aimed towards older students, the Virtual Geography Department is a treasure-trove full of exercises and lessons. Modules are broken into categories for easier navigation. Geography Workshop

Divided into eight parts, this online workshop provides an interactive learning experience for 7th through 12 graders. Teaching Geography is a collaborative partnership between The Annenberg Foundation and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB). Helping Your Child Learn Geography

Published by the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Educational Research and Improvement, this booklet provides information and exercises for teaching children five to ten years of age about geography.

Caitlin Dempsey, M.A., is the GIS Coordinator for a large city in Southern California and is the editor of GIS Lounge