Britain's American colonies broke with the mother country in 1776 and were recognized as the new nation of the United States of America following the Treaty of Paris in 1783. During the 19th and 20th centuries, 37 new states were added to the original 13 as the nation expanded across the North American continent and acquired a number of overseas possessions. The two most traumatic experiences in the nation's history were the Civil War (1861-65), in which a northern Union of states defeated a secessionist Confederacy of 11 southern slave states, and the Great Depression of the 1930s, an economic downturn during which about a quarter of the labor force lost its jobs. Buoyed by victories in World Wars I and II and the end of the Cold War in 1991, the US remains the world's most powerful nation state. (Source: CIA World FactBook)

10 Geographic Facts About Idaho

Read this article to learn ten facts about the United States' state of Idaho. Learn information about Idaho's history, government, economy, geography and climate.

Geography of the Florida Keys

Read this article to learn information about the Florida Keys. Learn about the history, geography, geology, climate and environment of the Florida Keys.

10 Geographic Facts About Oregon

Read this article to learn information about the Pacific Northwest state of Oregon. Learn about Oregon's history, economy, geography, climate and people.

States With the Longest Coastlines

A listing of the states of the United States with the longest coastlines.

States Bordering the Mississippi River

Mississippi River States: Refer to this list to learn about the ten U.S. states with borders along the Mississippi River.

Facts about the United States

USA Facts: Read this article to learn ten facts about the United States. Learn facts about temperatures, land area and history from Geography at About.com.

Oldest Cities in the United States

Oldest Cities in the United States: Refer to this list to learn about the 15 oldest cities in the United States.

Important Cities in Black History

The most important cities in African-American history. Learn about the key historical cities of U.S. black history.

Geography of Oklahoma

Read this article to learn ten facts about the state of Oklahoma. Learn information about Oklahoma's history, economy, geography, ecology and climate.

Geography of Missouri

Read this article to learn ten facts about the state of Missouri. Learn information about Missouri's history, demographics, economy, geography and climate.

Geography of Hawaii

Geography of Hawaii: Learn information about the U.S. state of Hawaii. Learn ten facts about Hawaii's history, geography, topography and climate.

Largest National Parks in the United States

Refer to this list to learn about the twenty largest national parks in the U.S.

Geography of Death Valley

Geography of Death Valley: Read this article to learn ten facts about Death Valley, California. Learn about Death Valley's climate, plants, animals and geography from Geography at About.com.

Geography of the United States of America

Geography of the United States of America: Read this article to learn about the United States. Learn about the history, government, economy, geography and climate of the United States from Geography at About.com.

Map of United States of America

A nice clear map of United States of America from the CIA World FactBook.

USA Population

An overview of historical, current, and projected population totals for the United States of America.

United States Territories

Geography of United States Territories: Read this article to learn the names, land area and population of the territories of the United States from Geography at About.com.

Geography and Overview of Kingman Reef

Read this article to learn about Kingman Reef, a small coral atoll in the Pacific Ocean. Learn about Kingman Reef's history and biodiversity from Geography at About.com.

Islands of Hawaii

Islands of Hawaii: Refer to this list to learn information about Hawaii's eight main islands.

Geography and Overview of Yellowstone National Park

Read this article to learn about Yellowstone National Park. Learn about Yellowstone's history, geography and climate, geology, plants and animals from Geography at About.com.

Ten Facts About the Pacific Northwest

Read this article to learn about the Pacific Northwest. Learn ten important geographic facts about the Pacific Northwest from Geography at About.com.

Geography and Map of United States of America

A political map, comprehensive data, and flag from the CIA World FactBook.

Blank Outline Map of United States of America

A free blank outline map of United States of America to print out for educational, school, or classroom use.

Merriam-Webster Map of United States of America

A clear and detailed United States of America map along with basic geographic facts from Merriam-Webster. The map includes many cities and major physical features.

United States of America Maps 

A nice collection of large detailed maps of United States of America from the PCL Map Collection.

United States of America: History, Geography, Government, and Culture 

Great data and historical information from Infoplease.com.

The White House

The official site of the President of the United States; great resources.

Census Bureau Home Page

The primary statistical agency of the U.S. government; a plethora of information.

Flags of the World - United States of America

The flag of United States of America and everything you ever wanted to know about the flag.

Geography of Louisiana

Read this article to learn all about the U.S. State of Louisiana. Learn ten facts about Louisiana's history, geography, climate and economy from Geography at About.com.

Entry Dates of U.S. States

Read this article to learn when the states of the United States joined the Union and learn which were the first 13 to join. Learn history about the United States from Geography at About.com.

Northwest Angle

Learn about Minnesota's Northwest Angle, a piece of land that is not attached to Minnesota and is accessible only via water into Canada's Lake of the Woods. The Northwest Angle is the northernmost point in the United States, except for Alaska.

Geography of Arkansas

Geography of Arkansas: Read this article to learn about Arkansas. Learn ten facts about Arkansas's history, geography, climate and economy from Geography at About.com.

Geography of Florida

Geography of Florida: Read this article to learn about the U.S. state of Florida. Learn ten facts about Florida that range from its history to its economy, geography and biodiversity from Geography at About.com.

Geography of Las Vegas, Nevada

Geography of Las Vegas, Nevada: Read this article to learn ten facts about the history, economy, development and geography of Las Vegas from...

Geography of Hoover Dam

Geography of Hoover Dam: Read this article to learn information about Hoover Dam. Learn information about Hoover Dam's history, construction and...

Geography of the Colorado River

Geography of the Colorado River: Read this article to learn about the Colorado River. Learn about the Colorado River's course, history and why...

Washington, D.C.

Geography of Washington, D.C.: Read this article to learn about Washington, D.C. Learn ten facts about Washington, D.C.'s history, government, economy, geography and climate from Geography at About.com.

Geography of Alaska

Geography of Alaska: Read this article to learn ten facts about Alaska. Learn information about Alaska's history, geography and climate from Geography at About.com.

Regions of the United States

A listing of regions of the United States with states listed by U.S. region, from the About.com expert Geography GuideSite.

Geography of Yosemite

Read this article to learn about the geography of Yosemite National Park. Learn about Yosemite's history, geology, geography and biodiversity.

Alcatraz Prison

An overview of the history and facts about Alcatraz prison located in San Francsico Bay. Learn about Alcatraz from this article from About.com.