Xanthe Webb Aintablian is a geographer and contributing writer to Geography at About.com following her Spring 2011 internship on this site.

Xanthe recently graduated from Brigham Young University - Idaho, obtaining a Bachelor's degree in English (Professional Writing emphasis), with a minor in geography.

Xanthe has always held a profound love of writing and of the natural world around her. During her high school years, Xanthe became increasingly interested in different cultures, living conditions, and natural disasters that occur and exist around the world.

After pursuing fundraising for the American Red Cross, taking a humanitarian journey by herself to Guatemala, and studying abroad in the UK, Xanthe decided that she would like to dedicate her career to helping others in need, spreading cultural awareness, and sharing information through writing about the beautiful places around the world.

Xanthe jumped straight into a senior-level class, "geography of developing nations," to decide whether that path seemed promising for her. After learning about many nations, cultures, modes of thinking, and controversial issues, her plans with geography were cemented.

Xanthe declared her major as English and her minor as geography, with plans to study geography in graduate school, in order to establish a strong writing background. Her plans for graduate school include incorporating studies in GIS, disaster relief, and environmental studies.

Xanthe's spare time is filled with hiking, fishing, camping, biking, climbing trees and random objects, reading, writing, blogging, crafting, and obsessively cleaning. Traveling and exploring the beautiful outdoors (especially Southern Utah's redrock country) is closest to Xanthe's heart, after, of course, her family.

"The discipline of geography has the power to connect people from around the world, to allow for understanding and tolerance, to develop knowledge for bettering our environment, to find new ways to help others in crisis, and to better plan, develop, and progress so that our future is more secure. I am excited to write for you and share my thoughts on the many wonderful topics in geography!"You can contact Xanthe at xwaintablian@gmail.com, or follow her on Twitter @xwaintablian