Do you wonder what chemistry is or why you would want to study it? Take a look at answers to some basic questions about chemistry.





 Ultimately, the largest surprise would be what would stop the drilling. They found the temperature rose much more quickly than expected. They thought they were going to encounter 100 degC rock at the 7 mile mark, but really found 180 degC temperatures. The rocks tended to act like a plastic at that pressure and temperature and the hole would fill in when the drill bits were pulled out to be replaced. Drilling stopped at 40,230 feet.



 Find out what else occurred on 



 Follow On May 24, 1970, drilling began at the Kola Superdeep Bore. This project was an attempt to drill as deep as technologically possible. Several branching holes were drilled with the deepest reaching 7.6 miles into the Earth's crust. Several surprises were found on the way down. Seismic sonar mapping showed that seismic waves move faster below 2 miles and geologists expected a 'basement' layer where granite changes to basalt. They found instead the rock was changed by the heat and pressure. They also found the rock to be saturated with water. Another unexpected find was the discovery of microfossils of plankton from 4 miles down.Ultimately, the largest surprise would be what would stop the drilling. They found the temperature rose much more quickly than expected. They thought they were going to encounter 100 degC rock at the 7 mile mark, but really found 180 degC temperatures. The rocks tended to act like a plastic at that pressure and temperature and the hole would fill in when the drill bits were pulled out to be replaced. Drilling stopped at 40,230 feet.Find out what else occurred on this day in science history Follow About.com Chemistry on Facebook or Twitter.

If you are interested in science and enjoy math, you have many education and career options. Have you considered engineering? In chemistry, for example, what is the difference between a chemist and a chemical engineer? In theory, a chemist may be more focused on pure research and a chemical engineer on the application of chemistry to solve real-life problems. In practice, these two professions may do much the same thing. However, the average starting salary for a chemical engineer is much higher than that of a chemist, plus the engineer is more likely to find a job right out of school. Choosing a career is about more than money and employability, but for most people these are strong factors... If you are interested in science and enjoy math, you have many education and career options. Have you considered engineering? In chemistry, for example, what is the difference between a chemist and a chemical engineer? In theory, a chemist may be more focused on pure research and a chemical engineer on the application of chemistry to solve real-life problems. In practice, these two professions may do much the same thing. However, the average starting salary for a chemical engineer is much higher than that of a chemist, plus the engineer is more likely to find a job right out of school. Choosing a career is about more than money and employability, but for most people these are strong factors... more reasons to be an engineer

Did you know baking powder and baking soda have a shelf life? Both baking powder and baking soda are used in recipes to make baked goods rise. If your cakes and cookies are falling flat, it could be because the leavening ingredient has stopped working. Fortunately, it is very quick and easy to test these ingredients to make sure they are good before you add them to the mixing bowl... Did you know baking powder and baking soda have a shelf life? Both baking powder and baking soda are used in recipes to make baked goods rise. If your cakes and cookies are falling flat, it could be because the leavening ingredient has stopped working. Fortunately, it is very quick and easy to test these ingredients to make sure they are goodyou add them to the mixing bowl... learn how

rd is American physicist John Bardeen's birthday. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics on two different occasions. The first prize was in 1956 for being part of the team that developed the semiconductor transistor. The second was in 1972 for his role in formulating the BCS theory of superconductivity. Bardeen is one of four people to have won two different Nobel Prizes. Marie Curie, Linus Pauling and Frederick Sanger are the other three people who share this honor. May 23is American physicist John Bardeen's birthday. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics on two different occasions. The first prize was in 1956 for being part of the team that developed the semiconductor transistor. The second was in 1972 for his role in formulating the BCS theory of superconductivity. Bardeen is one of four people to have won two different Nobel Prizes. Marie Curie, Linus Pauling and Frederick Sanger are the other three people who share this honor. Find out what else occurred on this day in science history.



 Follow About.com Chemistry on Facebook or Twitter.