The author trains at the Airkix Manchester vertical wind tunnel with Joel Strickland of Varial Freefly

Aerospace wind tunnels are tools used in aerodynamic research. They are usually built in a horizontal configuration, and they use the airflow to test the action of aerodynamic forces on vehicles in development.

As opposed to these, recreational wind tunnels for human bodyflight are vertical instead of horizontal. Like aerospace tunnels, bodyflight tunnels use fans to generate a powerful airstream that can be controlled by an operator. However, that airflow is directed up from the bottom of the "tube," simulating the aerodynamic forces of relative wind on a body in freefall.

Depending on the model, age and manufacturer, various propellers and fan types are to move air through the bodyflight area. Typically, these create a vertical column of air that measures between 6 and 16 feet wide (though tunnels are now being built that measure in excess of 20 feet in diameter).

Air speed is controlled from a unit in a room separated from the flight area by a glass. There, a controller watches sign language from the experienced flyer or bodyflight instructor to make adjustments. The controller can turn the airspeed up for more lift or down for less. These adjustments are done "on the fly," and are based on the size, skill level and flying style of the tunnel flyer.

Though bodyflight wind tunnels are sometimes referred to as "skydiving simulators," that's a misnomer: since flyers do not wear or deploy a parachute in a bodyflight wind tunnel, the wind tunnel experience is not a full, true simulation of the skydiving experience.

Wind tunnels support year-round training for a variety of freefall disciplines (when they're not playing host to kids' birthday parties, corporate team-building exercises and unique date nights, that is). They are great training aids, allowing both students and experienced jumpers to practice freefall procedures and maneuvers even when the inclement weather does not permit comfortable, consistent skydiving.

Tunnels are also popular with new skydivers working towards their licenses. visit the wind tunnel to prepare for their AFF skydiving license progression so they can practice skydiving procedures and maneuvers without the stress of the fast-approaching ground. Tunnel training is an excellent tool for new and returning skydivers to build confidence in their freefall skills.

More experienced skydivers visit the wind tunnel to work on their most advanced moves in a controlled, precise environment.

Indoor vertical wind tunnels can be either recirculating or non-recirculating.

The first vertical wind tunnels built were of the non-recirculating type. The first of these purpose-built for recreational use made its debut in 1982 in a large building adjacent to the Las Vegas strip. That tunnel is still in operation as of publication in 2013.

Non-recirculating tunnels pull air through inlets at the bottom of the structure, direct it into the shape of a column, push it through flight area at high speed and release it as exhaust through the top of the building. The strength of a non-recirculating wind tunnel is very low. To compensate, flyers must wear baggy, vented suits, created specifically for flying in this type of tunnel, in order to have sufficient lift to fly. Standard skydiving jumpsuits do not function.

Modern vertical wind tunnels recirculate air. Recirculation allows for more power - resulting in a stronger, smoother, more controllable airflow - and better temperature control.

The structure of a recirculating wind tunnel is much more similar to an aerospace wind tunnel than a non-recirculating version. Recirculating tunnels use powerful fans and vanes to create an aerodynamic loop. The vertical portion of the loop is glassed-in and bookended with strong, springy metal netting that prevents flyers from accidentally flying into the mechanism.

Permanent outdoor vertical wind tunnels, since they have no surrounding walls to help contain and direct the air, are not technically "tunnels." The lack of solid surrounds makes the airflow much weaker than modern indoor wind tunnels. As such, they are inappropriate for most serious training for skydivers.

However, outdoor tunnels are generally located in scenic locations that take advantage of the 360-degree views from the column of air: for instance, a pretty park in Latvia, North Carolina's Appalachian mountains and Israel.

Far too weak for skydiver training, mobile vertical wind tunnels are maintained as rentals, to provide mechanical special effects for film production and for use in demonstrations.

Mobile wind tunnels do not have protective walls, but many include a security net to prevent the flyer from falling out of the padded zone surrounding the column of airflow.

There are more vertical wind tunnels in the US than anywhere else in the world. Here's a listing.

If you're not local to Americaland, no worries. Here's a comprehensive listing of vertical wind tunnels outside the US.

Also Known As: recreational wind tunnel, bodyflight tunnel, windytube, indoor skydiving