If you're used to flying inland mountain paragliding sites, you may not be used to coastal flying dynamics. Beach towels are for the weak and boring, however, and it's well worth the effort to bring your nylon to the coast. You'll need to keep some points in mind, however, to stay in the lift and prevent your sun-and-fun paragliding vacation from ending in a soggy, salty mess. Here's how.

Coastal sites tend to work in three distinct stages, shaped by the time of day: early morning, daytime and evening.

The early morning starts with sunrise and tends to last for about three hours. During this stage -- before the land has warmed up from its nighttime temperature -- the wind will tend to flow from the land down to the ocean or sea. After the land warms, the wind will flip. This occurs due to the low-pressure zone formed over the warmed land, which pulls the air in from the high pressure over the lower-temperature water. A bit before sunset, as the land cools back down, the wind will switch back to its "early morning" mode. As a rule, exercise extra care if you're launching during one of these transitions -- and, if you're landing at sunset, beware of the offshore wind pushing you out over the water as you're landing.

If the winds are forecasted to be strong all day, the strength of the conditions may override this pattern. Also be aware that, if the forecast for your site seems to contradict this information but you see pattern conditions at launch, you may face a significant wind shear for which you need to be prepared to compensate.

XC Mag has here reprinted a great graphic that shows where on a sea ridgeline you should be staying - and why. It's quick information to internalize, so head over and do just that.

Gust fronts are a very real consideration when you fly coastal sites, but there's a simple place to check to see if one is headed your way: the water's surface. Before you launch (and periodically during your flight), look out over the water towards the horizon. If you see either large, dark splotches or foamy whitecaps on the water's surface, there's a gust front out there. (A larger dark area or "whitecap zone," of course, indicates a larger, stronger gust front.) Once you evaluate the relative strength of the indicators, it's your call: either keep well away from the back of the ridge, fly away from the gust front or land and wait for it to pass. If you're not sure, choose option #3.

It's smart to peek at a tide table before you fly a site on the ocean coastline. At the very least, keep an eye on the beach. High tide may cover your dry, sandy landing area, and if that happens, it's not pretty: you'll definitely be stuck with an expensive cleaning and repack, and you may be forced to shred your lines with a hook knife.

Oh -- and don't automatically assume you'll be able to top-land and this section doesn't apply to you. Coastal conditions have a tendency to shut down remarkably quickly.

If you're flying next to the water, there's always the chance you'll end up in it. If you know you'll be flying coastally, you can prepare. Learn how to land a paraglider in the water so you won't literally drown in your own ignorance.

If you end up having to execute a water landing in saltwater (or especially dirt water), you'll need to wash your wing immediately lest the fabric be irreparably degraded. Keith Pickersgill gives a thorough explanation of how to do so at this link.