Snow. Flight. Mountains. Add the three together, and you have so much more than the sum of those parts: you have speed riding. Yes, it's as awesome as you've heard. And yes, you can do it -- but you'd better approach it intelligently, or you're likely to get a little more intimate than you'd prefer to with the mountain terrain.

1. Learn to ski. If you can't ski -- and ski well -- you can't speed ride. This may run contrary to what you've heard, but the ability to slide on skis for a few seconds at launch will not suffice. Your femurs will thank you for putting in the effort.

2. Learn to paraglide first. This is true especially if you're an experienced skydiver, interestingly enough. Experienced skydivers will also need to unprogram their set responses under a more-forgiving paragliding wing before getting a sporty little speedwing overhead. Toggle-yanking a speedwing -- very common, among transitioning skydivers -- can put you into the ground very, very quickly. Skydivers who have been used to weather proclamations being handed down from "on high" over the DZ loudspeaker will need to learn a great deal about weather dynamics -- as well as the confident, independent assessment of weather conditions.

3. Learn to speedfly. If you're a paragliding pilot, you'll notice that the speedwing's higher wing loading not only greatly increases the speed of the flight but the responsiveness of the handling. A speed wing's glide angle is much lower than a paraglider's. Because of that, the landing approach and landing itself are considerably different -- especially on skis. Before you combine the two, get comfortable with your new nylon. To point you in the right direction, here's a quick list of the country's most established speedflying schools:

4. Seek out specialized instruction. You're a skilled skier? Great. You're a solid speedwing pilot? Wonderful. You'll still need to learn how to combine the two in a way that optimizes your awesomeness and does not wrap you around a tree. Look for instruction from a school that's set up to teach this specialized sport. Some schools are more specialized than others. Cloud 9 and Freeboern are the best choices as they're in reasonably slope-convenient locations and employ instructors very well versed in the niche.

5. Be responsible about where you practice the sport. Practicing on non-designated ski slopes is a big no-no. Very few resorts currently allow speed riding on their property. Even after your training, make sure to contact the resort safety team before you take your wing anywhere near a resort. The resort's safety staff will probably be authorized to designate you an off-piste site where you can safely practice. After all, there's a chance you'll be a "first" in your area, and your responsible attitude will pave the way for others. Alternatively: if you fly irresponsibly, you may destroy the sport's reputation with your local mountain for everyone else.

6. Learn about avalanches. If you aren't already a skilled backcountry skier, you must seek training in the art of avalanche avoidance and rescue. Responsible speedriders have a kit of quality off-piste ski and avalanche equipment. You'll learn about what you need when you get your avalanche training (transceiver, shovel, probe, etc.)

7. Know your conditions -- not just the ones you're already familiar with. You need to know much more than just the conditions for paragliding and speedflying when you speed ride. Snow conditions figure in here in a massive way. If you're on the way to a site and you're new, get oriented to the site and take advice from resort safety experts and/or high mountain guides (if you're lucky enough to run into one).