Here's a new skydiver doing a wingsuit rodeo in used gear -- proving that you can still look absolutely awesome without a brand-new kit.

Congratulations -- you're a new skydiver! It's time to buy your first set of gear.

For the moment, you're going to need to look beyond the glossy advertising, boogie booths and gear-shop displays. If this is your first set of skydiving gear, you should buy used. Here's why.

You won't use this first set of gear for long. The fact of the matter is that you'll likely only use your first set of gear for the first 100 jumps or thereabouts. Buying this first set used means that you'll save loads of money up-front over newer equipment - and that, when you are ready to buy splashy custom gear, you'll know exactly what you want. You'll be able to spend your money on jumps. A skydiver's training budget should be planned to accommodate as much jumping as possible - including, ideally, a lot of pricey coaching jumps. For this reason, it's a much smarter idea to allocate money for jumping rather than a shiny new kit. Take a deep breath, buy solid (but ugly) used gear, and jump as much as you possibly can. If you buy all-new gear and aren't able to jump as often, you're kneecapping your growth in the sport. This may not appease your ego now, but you'll look better later (when it counts). You'll put a lot of wear-and-tear on your very first set of gear. When you start skydiving, you don't always land on their feet. You'll scuff up your first gear far more than you imagine you will. Don't worry, as that will change as you get your numbers up - but it's nice not to have incredibly expensive fabric casualties of your initial (unavoidable) mistakes. You'll likely recover your cost. If you approach the buying process patiently and make smart purchase choices, you'll likely recover most of what you pay for your used gear when you jump it, making your price-per-jump startlingly low. (This works in a similar way to buying a used car as opposed to new.)

Get comfortable with "used." The idea of buying a used reserve may be unnerving, as this as the canopy that will actually save your life if a serious eventuality arises. However, buying a used reserve is a smart place to save a lot of cash, if you know what you're doing. Many riggers agree that the cost of a brand-new reserve isn't justified, as these are very rarely (sometimes, never) used, often remaining in the same condition even after as much as a decade. Choose a reserve with less than ten rides. Less than five is better. Check the birthday. Your used reserve should not be older than 15-18 years. Choose a reserve parachute without holes, patches or damage. The savings is not worth your health.

Find a main with as few jumps on it as you can afford. Newer canopies will fly better and give you a better experience than a "ragged-out" canopy worn porous by time. Porous canopies deliver a weaker flare, making for harder landings. Choose a used main parachute that still has its original line set. Many sellers of used canopies - even honest ones - don't know for certain the actual number of jumps that the canopy has made. During inspection, a rigger can most realistically estimate the number of jumps on a canopy by the condition of the line set. This estimation becomes fuzzier after a canopy is relined, as well-cared-for fabric shows its age less visibly. Find out where the bulk of the canopy's jumps were made. A canopy that has only seen seasonal use over green-grass drop zones will be in significantly better shape than one that sees year-round use in the desert or on the beach. Sand and desert dust gnaws at the fabric's protective coating - especially into the seams - and seawater landings can result in extremely serious damage. Choose a main canopy with no holes, patches or repairs. As you will have significant trouble recouping your costs (and will likely face expensive repairs and reserve repacks going forward), these are rarely worth the up-front savings.

How to Buy a Used Harness/Container System