How do we define what's "extreme" and what's not? In a world where people are doing everything from cliff-nuzzling wingsuit jumps to extreme ironing -- and yes, you read that right -- the definitions of the term itself range hilariously widely.

To try to pin down the definition, I reached out to some folks who should know: after all, they live on the "pointy end" of extreme sports, dedicating their lives to pursuits that qualify by any definition. Here's what they have to say on the subject.

"'Extreme sports' are those that have a high level of perceived risk, not necessarily a high level of actual risk. The term itself is a misnomer: they are not always 'sports.' Perceived-high-risk activities can fall under the definition, as well. The catchphrase is often used as a marketing term and, while not always conducted by a youth demographic, they are usually the primary target audience. Extreme sports are normally non-traditional. They have been associated with an anti-establishment, unapologetic lifestyle branding that rejects authority; recently, however, the anti-establishment ethos is no longer a requirement. Compliance to cultural norms and respect for authority is completely acceptable. High speed and adrenaline (or the production of other substances, such as endorphins and dopamine, that are often mistaken for adrenaline) are not a technical requirement for an activity to be an extreme sport, but are often associated with it."

"The word 'extreme' sure has been tossed around -- and greatly misused -- over the last 20 or so years. Virtually everything from dishwashing liquid to energy drinks has carried the moniker. I think the title of 'extreme sport' comes from the idea that these sports involve rebelling against the status quo and attempting the impossible. Doing the very things that were previously thought of as things that simply could not be done -- the riskier, the better. I'm talking about endeavors like big wave surfing, free climbing, free skiing and BASE jumping. All of these are extremely dangerous and, until very recently, the idea of even attempting any of these meant a high likelihood of certain death. There's a second tier that also expresses the same type of ideal but doesn't carry the same level of risk -injury, yes, but fatality, not so much - such as BMX, skateboarding, motoX, etc. These sports are much more accessible and have a much larger level of participation, largely because they don't require the same level of commitment (and simply aren't as dangerous)."

"I really don't like the term 'extreme sports.' I prefer to use the term 'adventure sports,' because every time I do my sports I'm going on a cool adventure. There are no white lines, no goal posts, no rules, just pure adventure. I dont feel that BASE jumping or surfing or any of my chosen sports are extreme in the normal sense of the word; instead, they allow me to travel to incredible places in all corners of the earth and fulfill my dreams."

As to how the term was invented: I think it was created out of a necessity to put a term to a slew of new trends that could not otherwise be categorized. 'Extreme sports,' we shall call them, and everything too dangerous to be practiced by many will belong in this family.

The definition of extreme sports for me comes down to the rush: the fact that you find yourself with your eyes wide open, your heart pumping fast, your mind computing all variations of your jump and above all, the feeling of your body transforming to a different state. Maybe the cheating of death produces such a rush. It is like you have death next to you and you rely on your skills to evade him. That can be done by knowing your limits. The awful part is when athletes think that they are indestructible - then, people die.

From my years of experience as a BASE jumping photographer, BASE jumping is the king of extreme sports. One parachute and no reserve, plus tons of skills, plus low altitude, plus free fall equals adrenaline to the maximum. Mathematics do not lie. This is the ultimate rush factory!"