You now know about snatch force, step one of two. The second part of opening shock is "inflation force": or, that magical moment when you have nylon above your head.

Put simply, inflation force is the part of the deployment sequence when the canopy pressurizes and completes the conversion of the jumper's downward speed to forward speed as far as it will do. During the process of inflation, the canopy contends with several forces within the system: the drag created by the canopy fabric, the resistance of the slider and the inflation forces spreading the cells of the canopy.

"Early pressurization" is the more-scientific term for the phenomenon most jumpers know as "snivel." Here's how it goes down.

When a canopy reaches line stretch, the fabric of a ram-air canopy does what it's designed to do: introduce air into the cells through the leading edge, or "nose." Canopy designers aim to create wings that inflate evenly and over the course of a few seconds, so that only a moderate amount of force is exhibited on the slowing jumper and the canopy continues to fly straight as it pressurizes.

During the "snivel," each cell widens as it pressurizes. This widening pushes the cell's corresponding lines apart, finally pushing down the slider. To picture the process, imagine putting two pieces of floss through a ring, then pulling the pieces of floss away from each other to move the ring away from you. In this example, you are the canopy as it gets bigger during the process of pressurization, and the ring is the slider.

In a properly functioning parachute system, the center cell is usually the first to inflate, before the slider starts to move down. From there, the inflation proceeds from the center outwards. Cross ports - inlets inside the canopy that allow air to flow between the cells - help the canopy inflate into an airfoil efficiently. This efficiency is balanced by the the pressure of the air flowing around the sides of the canopy, which retards the inflation of the outer cells until the inflation of the inward-neighboring cell helps to present the inlet to the wind.

There is a certain inherent randomness to the process of pressurization. After all, a canopy is made of soft fabric. The cell inlets have a tendency to whip open and closed in the strong airflow created by the turbulence generated by the rest of the fabric and jumper.

The drag that the canopy creates during snivel as it takes its time to pressurize keeps the jumper from experiencing a bone-breaking opening. The drag decelerates the jumper over the course of seconds the canopy takes to inflate, leading to gentler opening forces during the final inflation and commencement of canopy flight.

Skydiving canopies, built to deploy when the skydiver is falling at terminal velocity, are designed to inflate over the course of an average of 500 to 1,000 feet. They stay within the process of early inflation longer, creating more drag on the jumper to slow him or her to a safe speed, so they have what's known as a long snivel.

Most BASE canopies, as they are often used to make sub-terminal jumps, are designed to inflate in 150 to 300 feet. A long snivel for a BASE jumper can be that jumper's very last canopy inflation. The only exception is made in the case of terminal jumps (from big-wall cliffs or other extremely high exit points). For a terminal jump, BASE jumpers follow special procedures and use special equipment in order to slow down deployment to prevent injuries from an "instant canopy."

Early pressurization, like the time between deployment and line stretch, is a sensitive moment in the deployment process, and it's influenced by an armful of factors.

The speed of early pressurization (or, in other parlance, the length of the canopy's snivel) is sensitive to:

The direction of early pressurization is also key. When one side of the canopy pressurizes before the other, the canopy immediately begins to fly in the direction that side is facing, leading to line twists and off-headings. In skydiving, these can lead to line twist malfunctions that cause midair collisions and/or require a cutaway; in the BASE environment, these can send the jumper back into the object.

On-heading pressurization can be thrown off by: