Learning to fly (and land) a canopy is one of the most rewarding aspects of learning to skydive.

"The most deadly aspect of skydiving isn't swooping, or wingsuiting, or big-ways, or collisions. It's lack of patience."

I heard those words sitting around a campfire at the New Years' Boogie at Skydive Eloy, sighed by an old-timer who had certainly lost more than his share of friends to the phenomenon. Truer words were never spoken in the sport.

Arguably, nowhere is this lack of patience more evident than in the unsettlingly abbreviated schedule on which many newer skydivers choose to downsize. It takes time to acquire the skills, experience and training that smaller, faster, more advanced canopies demand. A look at the fatality charts published by Parachutist Magazine speaks to the seriousness of the situation.

Downsizing safely, however, is a key part of a new skydiver's learning progression - and it can be done correctly. To do so, it's important to learn the few facts about canopy sizing, dispel some common myths and take a deeply introspective look at yourself as a skydiving athlete.

There are good reasons to downsize, of course. However, there are far more bad reasons to downsize. Determine where you stand on this scale.

Perhaps you've been led to believe that a smaller, faster canopy will deliver better landings than those you've been experiencing - that the speed will give you a stronger flare. Wrong.

Maybe you jump at a windy drop zone and, though you haven't gone through the process of learning how to fly your current canopy, you believe that the better penetration will make you safer. That's wrong, too.

Maybe you've decided that you're "bored" with your current canopy. Are you sure?

If not, maybe you're not as "bored" as you think. Maybe you're being impatient.

Maybe you're perfectly happy flying what you're flying, but your drop zone buddies are pressuring you to drop a size or two. That's the worst reason of all. (You certainly already know that, even if you're choosing to ignore it.)

When you're a newer skydiver, it's easy to cave to outside pressures. It's equally easy to misunderstand where you are in the sport relative to where you want to be. Take heart. If you follow your instincts, you'll be fine. If you don't, however, you'll invariably get hurt.

Case in point: in idle conversation at the drop zone, you'll notice that many experienced jumpers have forgotten the early part of their progression. They aren't being malicious, but they don't remember what it was like to learn to fly a ram-air. Many of these old-timers tend to cling to the notion that new skydivers can safely and quickly learn to fly a canopy with a wing loading of 1.0 and greater, when the "safe zone" is around 0.8. Let 'em talk, and rest easy in the knowledge that you're doing what's right for you and your healthy tenure in the sport.

A smaller canopy with a higher wing loading isn't just "faster." There are a lot of new dynamics that the downsize introduces. A smaller canopy will:

If you have workshopped your current canopy to the extent of expertise, you may enjoy this list of new features. If your landings are currently imperfect, your landings will invariably be worse.

Learn about what exit weight really means. If you look at a manufacturer's minimum exit weight for a canopy as something to meet or exceed, you're setting yourself up for failure.

If a manufacturer has not given a minimum exit weight for a certain canopy, you are extremely unlikely to be "under-loading" it.

Only work your way down one size at a time, ensuring a high level of accuracy, comfort and expertise before you make the choice to size down again.

If you enjoy the performance and comfort of a certain canopy, there's no need to downsize. However, if the smaller canopy presents any challenges - for instance, harder landings, accuracy issues or "butterflies" in the air - you've gone too fast. Upsize before your choice bites you.

Smaller canopies often have lines made of different material than the larger canopies do. Different materials behave differently during opening - and they require a different maintenance schedule than you may be used to. Educate yourself.

Also, canopies built for different purposes may have matching weight recommendations that yield far different results in the field. For example: you may discover matching weight recommendations for a docile, square canopy and a high-performance canopy. The former is likely due to cautious recommendations for newer jumpers, and the latter due to a company that believes that their high-performance machines must be heavily loaded to fly according to spec. When you evaluate the data, consider the motivations of the source.

If you pick up a lemon of a canopy, your downsize has no chance of going well.

There are ways to make your used-gear buying experience a lot less stressful and more successful. Read up on the process to smooth your way. If you're buying new skydiving gear, look into manufacturers' demo programs. Never buy a canopy before you've flown it.