I'm going to ask you a personal question.

How's your relationship going -- with your canopy?

Statistically speaking, it's not so good. If you're in a troubled relationship with your nylon, you certainly aren't alone. Too many skydivers break it off with the sport entirely because of their undeveloped canopy skills: the threat of injury (or vicious ragging) becomes too much.

It doesn't matter whether you're a freshly-stamped A-license holder or a grizzled vet, safety- or performance-minded, canopy-mad or canopy-meek. Take the necessary step and bridge the gap between yourself and your equipment. Here's how.

"Skydiving parachute systems have changed a great deal in a short period of time," explains Brian Vacher of Peformance Designs' Flight-1 canopy school. "Parachuting is a young sport that was originally started by recreational jumpers using ex-military parachutes. In the last 20 years, equipment changes within the sport have been rapid. Equipment development focused primarily on ensuring consistent openings, due to the opening problems of traditional container systems."

Over the course of that aforementioned 20 years, the nylon has changed unrecognizably. The introduction of ram-air wings, zero-P fabric and space-age linesets completely changed the way a canopy was built - and flown. Parachutes, instead of docile, unsteerable sky-jellyfish, essentially became aircraft wings both in appearance and in flying characteristics. As a result, the airspeed available to a weekend-warrior canopy pilot suddenly skyrocketed.

Pilots were, by and large, unprepared. They remain so to this day.

Buying a canopy is a lot like dating - flirtations with rental gear; long weekends spend with demo canopies; "stalking" your favorites on manufacturer galleries and social shares. When you commit to one, it's usually because of the many ways it's "better" than the rest; for instance: prettier color combinations, faster airspeed, better glide, steeper dives and zippily sensitive inputs. That combination can lead untrained pilots down a dangerous path.

This imbalance between pilot skill and wing performance has shot both pilot-error accidents and canopy collisions to the top of the USPA incident list. There have been far, far more deaths than there should have been.

What to do?

Sign up for a canopy course.

Canopy instruction through established canopy courses attempts to increase the awareness of the challenges posed by zippy modern canopies, empowering canopy pilots to fly safely and confidently in dynamic, challenging environments. Any pilot can - and should - improve.

Looking for a teacher? Here are some options.

The granddaddy of all canopy instruction programs, Flight-1 is the teaching division of the competition juggernaut Performance Designs Factory Team. F1 coaches are creme-de-la-creme pilots with armfuls of medals, and the new curriculum is uniquely designed: all skydivers, no matter what their jump numbers, progress through the same classes, choosing a sub-discipline (swooping or CRW) after the basics are in the bag. Flight-1 schedules courses every week, worldwide.

Brian Germain has made more than 10,000 skydives over the course of three decades in the sport, but that isn't his primary recommendation as a canopy coach. He's a cutting-edge parachute designer (and test pilot thereof), the author of an acclaimed and much-recommended book on the subject ("The Parachute and its Pilot"), a prominent voice in the skydiving media and an all-around sweetiepie. Brian travels to dropzones to deliver his course upon request; to book, ask your DZ owner (DZO).

Skydive Arizona's jumping conditions are the stuff of daydreams - year-round jumping, plentiful planes, an on-site wind tunnel, lots of facilities, reliably mild weather (except in deep summer, when the desert sun is at its strongest) and a couple of on-call masseuses that prowl the property. It's no wonder, then, that it attracts top-level coaches to instruct all levels at its multi-discipline training center, Axis Flight School. The big benefits of learning canopy at SDAZ: miles upon miles of landable space surrounding the DZ, comfy classrooms, cushy landing areas and fast-turning loads.

If you're waffling between traveling to (or waiting for) a big-name, designer-label canopy course or taking no canopy course at all, stop that. March up to Manifest and ask to be pointed in the direction of a canopy coach. Most dropzones have local canopy-flight experts, and the lion's share of medium-sized dropzones regularly put canopy courses on the calendar. If you have to wait, use that time to work on canopy drills.

Remember: your next jump could be the one you need better skills to complete safely.