This will someday happen to you. Know how to react.

Are you ready to be alone in the sky with a malfunctioning parachute and two little handles? Though there are skydivers with thousands of jumps who have never experienced the fun of a cutaway, don't be fooled: it's not a question of "if," it's a question of "when."

Don't feel ready? You're not alone - but there are a number of proven ways to boost your confidence (and, therefore, safety).

I know. It's not your fault. Your home DZ is seasonal - or it's far away - or it's a tandem factory that keeps sullen fun jumpers on the ground. Whether it is or isn't your motivation that's the problem, the fact remains: long lapses between jumps are dangerous. They dull skills, heighten apprehensions, create a sense of unfamiliarity with aircraft and degrade the muscle memory you have carefully built around your gear, which is of vital importance in the event of a reserve ride.

It's vital to your career as a skydiver - especially, at the beginning - to make the effort to jump every couple of weeks.

The USPA Skydiver Information Manual puts it rather dryly: "Regular, periodic review, analysis, and practice of emergency procedures prepares you to act correctly in response to problems that arise while skydiving." Rephrased in a slightly more compelling manner: practicing might save your life, specially if you're a newer skydiver who isn't quite as attenuated to the stress of freefall as an old-timer.

Before each and every jump, the USPA advises skydivers to "review the procedures to avoid emergency situations and the procedures to respond to emergencies if they occur." This doesn't have to mean poring over your SIM in the staging area.

You know the sequence*. You know what a malfunctioning main looks like. Before you pull that handle, though, make sure you know the rest of the story.

When you land a reserve, you're going to be the talk of the DZ (for about five minutes, usually). During that five minutes - longer, if the loads are turning slowly - you'll probably be approached by a gamut of big talkers and would-be mentors, questioning your malfunction and eager to discuss your decision to cut away.

My advice: speak to your trusted mentors and co-jumpers about it in private, and tell the rest to go suck an egg. When you need to save your life in the sky, you are absolutely alone. In the entire world, there exists only you and two handles. Your cutaway is your business. You were there. They were not.

* Arch, look down at your handles, grasp the handles, pull cutaway, pull reserve. Naturally.