In a strange way, it makes sense: skydivers that have never experienced a reserve ride most commonly buy a reserve canopy as an afterthought. You'd think that newer skydivers would be more nervous - and, therefore, pickier - about a last-resort canopy, but it's skydivers that have had to land one that really understand the importance of a properly sized, properly maintained reserve. After all, a ride under the wrong reserve rarely ends well. Here's how to choose one that stacks the odds in your favor.

Consider the purpose of your reserve canopy. It's not just the canopy you'll use if your main parachute malfunctions - it's the canopy you'll use if you malfunction. If you're rendered unconscious (and trust me, nobody expects to be rendered unconscious on a skydive) or suffer an injury that prevents you from executing a flare, a larger reserve might safe your femurs - or your life. If you're the kind of skydiver that thinks your godlike skills will save you from hairy situations, remember that your godlike lights might not be on in this situation.

Also consider that you might not be landing in what you believe to be a "landable landing area." In fact, you might be opening very low over terrain that's significantly beyond your landing skills. A larger reserve will fly more slowly, giving you more time to wrap your head around the obstacles (and perhaps preventing you from wrapping yourself around the obstacles.)

The Federal Aviation Administration works with the manufacturers to test and certify reserve parachutes for two metrics: maximum weight and deployment speed. Each reserve canopy has both of those figures printed on its label - the fabric placard sewn on to the canopy itself that gives the canopy's manufacturer, make, date of manufacture and serial number. If you're like most skydivers, you've never had a look at yours - and you are probably overloading your emergency canopy.

There's another FAA certification to pay attention to, as well: the one that rates your overall harness and container system for max weight and deployment speed. Note: it could be lower than the one for your reserve. To find the specs for that certification, check with the manufacturer that made your container.

Just as you do when you choose a new canopy (especially when downsizing), you'll need to review the list of non-equipment-related variables when you select a reserve parachute. Among them:

If you're a freeflyer, you're going to be falling fast. Specifically, you're pretty much guaranteed to be operating outside of the aforementioned specs for at least some of your skydive. Remember that not all reserve deployments are intentional - and close-quarters, multi-orientational jumps wave your reserve handle around at a whole lot of flailing hands and feet (a more significant problem if you have a traditional metal D-ring as a reserve handle).

Reserves are not meant to be deployed while head-down, in a stand or in a tumble; doing so can seriously damage your very last canopy. To lessen the risk, make sure that the system you purchase has a reserve container that stays securely shut no matter what body position you're in. Any looseness can allow air to flow under fabric, yanking the reserve out for one hell of an opening shock. If you're buying used, make sure that a rigger double-checks that the system is in good shape and functioning properly.

Remember that higher altitudes, warmer temperatures and strong wind conditions can effect you in a number of ways: first, they can contribute to damaging opening shock; secondly, the speeds for both stall and landing increase.

Even though you may only fly it once or twice in an emergency situation, it'll likely be the canopy you'll land in the nastiest conditions, with the closest margins -- and you probably have no idea how it flies. That's a great reason to get to know it before you have to. Read on to find out how.