Here's a great photo of a simple RSL, disconnected from the rig to demonstrate its component parts. (Image courtesy Mark Brown of http://perrisorganizers.com/)

A reserve static line, or "RSL," is a skydiving safety device. Its function is to open the skydiver's reserve parachute container automatically when the main parachute is jettisoned, without the skydiver deploying his or her reserve via use of the handle. The system uses the drag of the cut-away canopy to assist the process, beginning reserve deployment with a minimum loss of altitude.

An RSL is composed of a lanyard that connects one main canopy riser (or both main canopy risers, in some cases) to the reserve rip cord. It is connected to the main canopy riser via a strong, but manually disconnectable, metal spring clip.

This video illustrates how an RSL works when you initiate a cutaway. Here's another one.

Invented in the wild foment of skydiving innovations that comprised the 1960s, the RSL was originally known by the name of its inventor: California skydiving instructor Perry Stevens. In those first years, the system was known as the "Stevens Cutaway" or the "Stevens Lanyard."

Stevents was inspired by the insistence of tragedy. In the 60's, more than a few skydiving fatalities resulted from the inability of skydivers to pull their own reserve handle in time after a cutaway. The RSL, which was meant to remove this complication, saved many lives (and still does).

The introduction of the RSL dramatically reduced the number of deaths caused by skydiving canopy malfunctions over an almost 50-year period. The system itself very rarely fails.

Primarily, an RSL results in much faster deployment of the reserve parachute than a deployment that uses only emergency handles. Often, skydivers who cut away with an RSL system feel their reserve deploy when their hand is still on their reserve handle, ready to pull.

In all the above cases, an RSL could easily save the skydiver's life. The jumper simply pulls one handle - the cutaway - and the RSL deploys the reserve parachute.

While malfunctions of the RSL equipment are extremely rare over the half-century course of the device's use, human error can lead to the component's disconnection or malfunction.

For this reason, a skydiver should never rely completely on any mechanical reserve extraction device (RSL or AAD).

Whether or not you think you have a properly installed, functioning device, always move to pull your own reserve, as proper emergency procedures require. (Pulling your own reserve handle during an RSL-facilitated extraction does not increase the danger you are in - it only decreases it.)

Most skydivers are well advised to jump with a properly attached, properly maintained RSL system. However, there are instances in which a skydiver should not jump with the device connected. It's vital to be familiar with the use and function of the system, using that information to make educated decisions regarding when to use one's RSL.

Bill Booth, the lush-beareded president of the innovating gear manufacturer Relative Workshop (now United Parachute Technologies), rethought the RSL to create the Skyhook system. Originally invented to speed up reserve deployments for tandem systems, the Skyhook is now sold as an additional-cost option on some (but not all) sport skydiving rigs.

The Skyhook takes the RSL a step further, adding a connection to the reserve bridle. It automatically releases the opposite riser, protecting the jumper in instances that the RSL-side riser releases prematurely. The system efficiently uses the drag from the cut-away main canopy as a superpowered pilot chute, extracting the reserve canopy in about a half a second from breakaway to line stretch.

The process takes approximately one-fourth the time than that of a pilot-chute-facilitated extraction, allowing a Skyhook activation to result in a flying reserve using about 80 feet of altitude.