If you're going on a hike of any distance, there's really no way around hauling some sort of pack. (Because, you know, you've got to carry... stuff.) And who doesn't want that pack to be as small and light as possible?

To a certain degree, shrinking your pack is a matter of buying lighter gear. Everything in your pack -- and even your pack itself -- is fair game for the question of "Can I buy (or make) a smaller, lighter version?"

But if you don't have your packing system dialed in just yet, you can do a lot to lighten up your pack without spending a single dime. Just answer these three questions honestly:

Keep track of what you actually use over the course of your next two or three outings -- you might be amazed by what you've been toting back and forth all this time.

Four big areas to watch are: Uneaten food, stove fuel you never used, clothing you never even thought of wearing, and carrying too much water (I'd rather err on the side of too much rather than too little, but there's no need to go overboard; remember, one gallon weighs a little more than eight pounds).

Another thing to watch for is package size. Just like you wouldn't haul along a six-person backpacking meal to feed one person, you also don't need to tote a full-size bottle of sunblock or insect spray -- just carry what you need. (Zip-close plastic bags and refillable, travel-size tubes are a quick and easy solution to oversize containers.)

Sure, you might want a couple of comfort items along on a backpacking trip -- say, a book to read and a camp shower. But those few items aside, if it doesn't serve one of the following purposes it doesn't belong in your pack:

Sometimes redundancy is a good thing. My go-to example is that if you depend on a GPS for navigation, you should still have a map and compass along (and know how to use them) just in case the GPS's battery dies, the screen breaks or the whole thing gets soaked.

But you don't need two camp stoves. You don't need a separate bowl; just eat out of your cook pot. You don't need two full-size headlamps (although a tiny backup headlamp is a good idea for when you have to change the batteries in the big one). With some tents, you can use your hiking poles in place of a tent pole.

You get the idea -- if you're carrying more than one thing that can serve the same purpose and losing one wouldn't create a safety issue, ditch the extra.

With that in mind, sometimes you can trim your pack even more if you're hiking or backpacking with a friend. Think about it -- do you both have to carry your own thermoses on a cold winter hike? Do you both have to carry your own cook stoves or sleep in individual tents on a backpacking trip?

Sometimes the answer is yes -- but if you're friendly enough to share a tent or swap cooking duty on a single stove, your loads will be that much lighter.