The Tippmann Model 98 Custom is an update of the legendary Model 98 that is more easily upgraded but still retains the original's durability and reliability. The Model 98 Custom is a good choice for beginners who are interested in heavily customizing their own paintball gun or for players who want a decent gun that will last for years to come.

Tippmann was originally a manufacturer of firearms and the design of the Model 98 Custom ( Compare Prices ) reflects this influence. The all-metal design is very sturdy and its rear pistol grip and front fore grip ensure a comfortable feel during extended use. The hinged elbow is easily removed allowing easy access to the chamber to clean out any breaks and the feed neck snugly locks onto your hopper with an Allen screw. It comes with a standard ASA and adjustable blade sights. It can run on CO2 or compressed air I have shot many 98 Customs and I'm very impressed by their reliability and durability. The 98's sturdy design also lets it work despite being dropped, slammed into trees and left out in the rain (not recommended). Its trigger pull is not particularly long nor hard but it does not have a feather trigger pull. The stock gun is not inaccurate and I have seen upgraded 98's shoot as well as any blowback gun. One disadvantage of the in-line bolt design is that I notice more recoil than with some over-under bolts which affects the accuracy of your second and third shot. One advantage of the recoil, though, is that it agitates your hopper enough that you don't need a motorized hopper . The stock Model 98 Custom can shoot around 6-8 shots per second.The Model 98 Custom is very easy to upgrade and there are many, many upgrades ( Compare Prices ) available so you can make it your own and adjust it to fit your playing style - plus, these upgrades are easily found and typically easy to install. Available upgrades range from custom stocks ( Compare Prices ) and shrouds ( Compare Prices ) to improved barrels Compare Prices ), electronic grips ( Compare Prices ), response triggers ( Compare Prices ) and even a cyclone feeder ( Compare Prices ).