At first glance, hiking is just about putting one foot in front of the other. But as soon you hit the trail, you'll realize that a myriad of skills go into every hiking experience. Here's how to master the trail.

Sometimes it's best to start with the basics. Let's get oriented with your basic gear and layering (clothing) system.

Going for a hike is no more hazardous than taking a stroll in the city; the hazards you deal with are just a little different. Here are the basic risk management tools every hiker should have.



Being without your bearings in the great outdoors can be pretty scary. Here are tips to keep from getting lost in the first place, plus what to do if you manage to get lost anyway.

Putting one foot in front of the other isn't as easy as it looks when you're hiking on a steep slope or navigating exposed terrain. Here's how to handle common types of terrain you might encounter while hiking.

Most hiking trails are relatively friendly, but every so often you'll encounter real terrain hazards. Here are some tips to help you recognize, avoid, or survive those hazards.

It's dark. It's cold. There's a storm coming. You're lost. Common sense and basic precautions do a lot to keep you from landing in this type of situation, but sometimes the unexpected happens. Now that you're in a pinch, how do you get out of it?

Encountering wildlife on the trail is one of hiking's biggest joys -- unless said wildlife happens to be grumpy or aggressive. Here's how to handle some of the common (and not-so-common) types of wildlife you might encounter on a hike.

If things have gone from bad to worse, it's time to make basic survival needs like food, water, and shelter a priority.

Most people know how to doctor simple bumps and bruises -- but do you know how to handle a more serious injury if it happens to you (or someone else) on the trail?

There's nothing like the stress of getting lost or getting caught in a sudden downpour to test your interpersonal (or sometimes interspecies) skills. Here are some tips for keeping the peace with your trail companions.