Paintball is a wonderful sport that is accessible, fun and a great way to enjoy friendships and get some exercise. If you browse through this site you see some recurring themes with paintball, often focused on how paintball can be a great hobby for just about anyone to enjoy. This article is intended as a kind of summary of some of my general themes and to sum up much of why paintball is fun and what you can do to enjoy it even more.

1. Paintball is about having fun The reason paintball exists is to have fun. It's a reason to get outside, to meet up with friends, to strategize, to exercise to tinker and to play. Kids have always loved to play tag and paintball is nothing more than a more adult version of tag. Play it to have fun and enjoy your time while you play. When you are customizing your equipment or tinkering with gear, have fun. When you are reminiscing about past games, have fun. When you plan future adventures, have fun. Some people will take the sport too seriously (they always do), but that doesn't mean you have to. While some people have turned playing paintball into a profession, nobody is getting reach playing the game and nobody will make their entire career last as a player, so focus on enjoying the sport. It's not your life, it's a pastime. Enjoy it for what it is. The reason paintball exists is to have fun. It's a reason to get outside, to meet up with friends, to strategize, to exercise to tinker and to play. Kids have always loved to play tag and paintball is nothing more than a more adult version of tag. Play it to have fun and enjoy your time while you play. When you are customizing your equipment or tinkering with gear, have fun. When you are reminiscing about past games, have fun. When you plan future adventures, have fun. Some people will take the sport too seriously (they always do), but that doesn't mean you have to. While some people have turned playing paintball into a profession, nobody is getting reach playing the game and nobody will make their entire career last as a player, so focus on enjoying the sport. It's not your life, it's a pastime. Enjoy it for what it is.

Hyper-competitiveness is not a good thing. Competitive play is great and should be encouraged, but if you start to take the game personally or tend to bend or break the rules to suit your preferences, then you've gone too far. Follow the rules, respect your opponents and focus on making sure everyone has fun. If winning becomes all that matters, the game is no longer a game and has become something else entirely. Don't let that happen. You can avoid such problems by always focusing on sportsmanship and treating your opponents as you would like to be treated (you know, the golden rule). Many issues that people have with playing paintball will be averted if everyone is simply a good sport. Hyper-competitiveness is not a good thing. Competitive play is great and should be encouraged, but if you start to take the game personally or tend to bend or break the rules to suit your preferences, then you've gone too far. Follow the rules, respect your opponents and focus on making sure everyone has fun. If winning becomes all that matters, the game is no longer a game and has become something else entirely. Don't let that happen. You can avoid such problems by always focusing on sportsmanship and treating your opponents as you would like to be treated (you know, the golden rule). Many issues that people have with playing paintball will be averted if everyone is simply a good sport.

The heart of paintball is the players. We can always have more productive players on the field, so invite your friends and co-workers to try it out. Not everyone will become a paintball aficionado, but they will enjoy the sport and have a different perspective of it. Simply inviting people to play will serve the dual purpose of constantly growing the sport and advertising about what the sport really represents. I know people that I have taken to play paintball that would never have gone on their own, but now have played and will always have something positive to say about the sport. The heart of paintball is the players. We can always have more productive players on the field, so invite your friends and co-workers to try it out. Not everyone will become a paintball aficionado, but they will enjoy the sport and have a different perspective of it. Simply inviting people to play will serve the dual purpose of constantly growing the sport and advertising about what the sport really represents. I know people that I have taken to play paintball that would never have gone on their own, but now have played and will always have something positive to say about the sport.

About the only part of your body that is really susceptible to permanent damage from a paintball is if you get hit in the eye. The way you prevent this is by wearing your mask on the field. All the time. Don't ever take it off. Nothing on the field is worth losing your eyesight, so don't take off your mask. If you keep your mask on, you have almost no chance of being severely injured while playing. When you're off the field, use your barrel cover or barrel plug and make sure everyone else does, too. I could say this twenty other ways (and I have, just read through the site and you'll see), but just remember to About the only part of your body that is really susceptible to permanent damage from a paintball is if you get hit in the eye. The way you prevent this is by wearing your mask on the field. All the time. Don't ever take it off. Nothing on the field is worth losing your eyesight, so don't take off your mask. If you keep your mask on, you have almost no chance of being severely injured while playing. When you're off the field, use your barrel cover or barrel plug and make sure everyone else does, too. I could say this twenty other ways (and I have, just read through the site and you'll see), but just remember to wear your mask ... and make sure everyone else wears theirs, too.

There's a perpetual myth in paintball that a better gun will make you a more competitive player. While improved equipment does help, that is a very small component of playing paintball. What makes you a better player is not the equipment, but what you do with it. While it's true that if you are significantly outgunned you will be at a disadvantage, as long as your equipment approximates the capabilities of your opponent's, what will decide the game is your ability to play as a team, move and shoot accurately. There's a perpetual myth in paintball that a better gun will make you a more competitive player. While improved equipment does help, that is a very small component of playing paintball. What makes you a better player is not the equipment, but what you do with it. While it's true that if you are significantly outgunned you will be at a disadvantage, as long as your equipment approximates the capabilities of your opponent's, what will decide the game is your ability to play as a team, move and shoot accurately.

The best tip for new players is to The best tip for new players is to move on the field . Get to your opponents and engage them. Then move somewhere else and play from a different angle. Don't get stuck behind a bunker and don't hang out at the back of a field hoping someone walks by. Move and make something happen. My best tip for experienced players is to move. Get to your opponents and engage them. The only difference is that as you get more experience you need to learn to move with your teammates in a synchronized fashion. When you are able to plan and execute an attack without words, just because you know how your teammates will react, then you're getting somewhere.

There are very few pieces of equipment that are objectively better than others, particularly when you are dealing with equipment in a similar price range. Because of this, you should choose equipment based on how it fits for you. For example, just because your friend says that Gun X is great, doesn't mean that it is also great for you. Maybe you prefer Gun Y. If that's the case, Gun X is probably better for your friend and Gun Y really is better for you, since that is who will be using each one. There is considerable peer pressure among paintball players to encourage the specific use of one gun or another, along with many other types of gear. Use There are very few pieces of equipment that are objectively better than others, particularly when you are dealing with equipment in a similar price range. Because of this, you should choose equipment based on how it fits for you. For example, just because your friend says that Gun X is great, doesn't mean that it is also great for you. Maybe you prefer Gun Y. If that's the case, Gun X is probably better for your friend and Gun Y really is better for you, since that is who will be using each one. There is considerable peer pressure among paintball players to encourage the specific use of one gun or another, along with many other types of gear. Use whatever works best for you and stick with it. In the end, it's you who will be using it.

Playing paintball does involved getting Playing paintball does involved getting hit with paintballs . This doesn't mean "getting hurt with paintballs". After answering questions from hundreds of people about paintball, the most common question I get is "does it hurt", with some very intelligent people assuming that it will hurt considerably. The truth is that getting hit with a paintball can leave a small bruise or welt, but it really doesn't hurt very much. The most dangerous part of playing paintball is tripping and hurting yourself. That is, of course, if you will just wear your mask (see next tip).

9. Don't do anything dumb with a paintball gun Paintball is viewed by some as a fringe sport played by terrorists and anti-government militia. Paintball players have been combatting this perception for several decades now, and the last thing we need is for someone to do something to give paintball a bad reputation. Most people do not feel strongly, one way or another, about paintball, but vocal critics can cause serious headaches for those that love the sport. Don't give them fodder for their attacks. Don't shoot from cars, don't commit acts of vandalism and don't do anything else dumb. Countless hours of goodwill are quickly ruined when one person decides their bored and they have a paintball gun in public. Don't do it. Don't let your friends do it. Don't let your enemies do it. Just don't do anything dumb with a paintball gun. Paintball is viewed by some as a fringe sport played by terrorists and anti-government militia. Paintball players have been combatting this perception for several decades now, and the last thing we need is for someone to do something to give paintball a bad reputation. Most people do not feel strongly, one way or another, about paintball, but vocal critics can cause serious headaches for those that love the sport. Don't give them fodder for their attacks. Don't shoot from cars, don't commit acts of vandalism and don't do anything else dumb. Countless hours of goodwill are quickly ruined when one person decides their bored and they have a paintball gun in public. Don't do it. Don't let your friends do it. Don't let your enemies do it. Just don't do anything dumb with a paintball gun.

10. You can always get better You learn by doing and paintball is no exception. You need to practice, You learn by doing and paintball is no exception. You need to practice practice . Getting good at paintball requires playing paintball. There's no book you can read, YouTube video you can watch or camp you can go to that will teach you all you need to know about paintball. What you need to do to improve your ability to excel at the sport is to play it. Get out with your friends and have fun. You can have dedicated practices, but the real key is to play games.