It's a weeknight and you have no plans. All your friends have other commitments and you have the burning desire to play some paintball. What to do? The simplest solution is to practice your technique by yourself. Just as the best basketball players spend hours alone in the gym, to fully develop your technique at paintball you need to invest some time alone. Improving your shot is the quickest way to improve your game. A player who can hit what he is aiming at his first time will get more kills than a player who alerts the other team of his presence by missing his first few shots. Shooting hundreds of rounds of paintballs obviously will help you improve, but it will get pretty expensive pretty quickly. A cheaper way is to buy a set of reballs (reusable paintballs) and shoot them to your heart's delight. Don't simply practice aiming and firing, but focus more on shooting when you only have a fraction of a second to aim. Practice hiding behind a bunker or a tree with a target placed about forty feet away, jump out and shoot at it and quickly hide again. By practicing the actual shots you will take in a game you will be prepared to make those shots in a game. The best paintball players are not the ones who shoot the fastest or have the nicest guns, they are the players who know how to move. Is your first instinct to drop on your face and roll behind a barrier when you come under fire? If so, you need to get in the habit of quickly identifying the direction of your attack, noting any directions you can move, and moving to a new position to return fire at a different angle or retreat with cover at your back. The simplest way to practice this is to walk through the woods (with all your equipment), and at differing intervals dropping behind a tree and then practicing what you would do if fire was coming from a certain direction. This may seem like a lot of work for nothing, but if you can develop the ability to move without thinking about it, you will be able to more effectively move during a game without freezing. Whether you love sliding behind a bunker during speedball or diving into a gully during woodsball, you need to learn the art of getting in and out of the prone and kneeling positions. Can you slide behind a bunker while running at full speed? Can you go from your belly to a full sprint before the opposing team can fire a shot? Each person develops their own method for lying down and standing up during paintball, but few actually master the art. The key to getting down and up quickly in paintball gear is to first learn to drop, slide, and escape without any gear and once your form is right, add your equipment. If you've ever played football, wrestled, or watched a movie about them, you have probably seen the down-up drill where players drop to their stomachs and stand up again. Practice this drill, and then do the same drill while running on grass. Once you have learned to do this consistently and quickly, try it with a gun, and then do it on some more unforgiving terrain like a mountainside or a dirt field. Is there a field you play on every Saturday? Are you going to play on a new field soon? Learn the field and learn it well. If you take a slow stroll around a field and actually think about what you are seeing, you will be better prepared when game day comes around. It may seem simple to remember where the major trees, creeks, and hills are, but in the heat of battle, if you haven't thought about it before hand, you will forget where you are and where the other team might be hiding. Even if you play speedball, a simple walk through the course before your first game is rarely enough for you to remember what the left side of the field looks like when you are laying on your face on the right edge.