Generally paintball is not associated with animals and with good reason. Paintball is a game for intelligent people who know how to safely play the sport within the confines of the rules. Animals, though, do occasionally become involved with paintball, but not often for the reasons most expect.

One of the most common ways that animals get involved with paintball is by accident. The most common reason for this is when an animal crosses into a field where it does not belong. While playing paintball I remember playing a game and someone yelled "game off". A mule dear casually walked through the field. The deer was completely unconcerned and walked by within thirty feet of where I was. It would have been easy to shoot the animal, but the point of paintball is not to scare or harass. We watched it walk past and then resumed our game. In addition to unwanted deer, it's very common for domestic animals such as dogs to come across the field. The best approach to take is to simply call the game off until the animal has moved on. A slow animal can be scared by shouting, but please do not shoot the animals with paintball guns.

A second way that animals get involved with paintball is not through the sport, but with the guns. Paintballs were originally used to hit and mark livestock. The different colors could be used to determine which ones would go to the slaughter or could be used similar to branding to distinguish ownership of mixed herds. The paintballs used for this look just like the ones we play with on the field but, instead of having washable paint, they come with a permanent paint that will remain on the animal for up to a year.

A third way that animals interact with paintball is through pest control. When nuisance animals such as bears, moose or geese will not leave an area or are threatening people, a non-lethal way of removing them is with paintballs. Normal paintballs will often scare the animal away for a time, but once the sting of the shot leaves, the animals often come back. Additional discouragement can come by using pepper-paintballs which contain the same chemical found in pepper-spray. Getting hit with these paintballs doesn't guarantee the animal won't return, but it does increase the likelihood that they leave the premises.

A fourth way that animals interact with paintball is with pets and paintballs. The colorful little paintballs are extremely attractive and delicious for some pets and they may eat them in large quantities if given the opportunity. The risks of such behavior include vomiting and diarrhea but generally are not fatal. If your pet eats your paintballs, you should insure the animal has access to water and you should reevaluate where you store your paintball equipment.

Overall, paintball is not a game for pets or other animals. Some sports, such as Frisbee or jogging may be fine to do with your dog, but paintball is not one where you should include your pet. In general, you should keep your pets and wild animals far away from where you play paintball.

As a final plea to all paintballers in the world, please do not ever shoot animals with paintball guns. I know it may seem funny to shoot a deer or your neighbor's cat, but this is not only bad for the animal in question but gives non-paintballers a negative impression of the sport. With smaller animals like birds, paintballs can be fatal. Unless you are a licensed to remove nuisance animals with paintballs, DO NOT SHOOT ANIMALS WITH PAINTBALL GUNS.