A paintball hopper (also known as a "loader" or "that thing that sits on top of a paintball gun that you put paintballs into") is a device that is attached to a paintball gun and serves the purpose of feeding paintballs into the firing chamber. Along with the paintball gun , the air tank and the mas k, this is one of the four core pieces of gear you need, so it pays to know what it is.A hopper has three basic components: the neck, the body and the mouth/lid. The neck of the hopper fits into the feedneck of the paintball gun and is how the hopper stays attached to the gun. The hopper should fit snugly, but not require significant force to fit into the feedneck. Many feednecks have adjustable fittings that will fit a wide range of hopper neck sizes. If your gun does not have an adjustable feedneck and the hoopper neck is too large, you can sand the hopper neck down to the point that it will fit in the feedneck. Also, just to keep things confusing, the neck on the hopper is also often referred to as a feedneck.

The body of the hopper is the container portion that holds the paintballs. These generally hold around 180 paintballs, but that varies considerably by the specific hopper. Shapes of hoppers generally are sloped on the sides to help the paintballs roll into the feedneck, but the shapes do vary.

The lid of the hopper covers the mouth of the hopper where you will refill paintballs. The mouth can be different sizes, but is typically about two inches across. The goal for a mouth is that it is large enough to easily refill paintballs, but small enough that a lid on it can clearly seal and has a lid that stays on tight. Most lids are spring loaded to open and stay open when you are filling. Most will click shut, but some use magnets to remain closed. Quick-fill lids are basically flexible pieces of plastic that allow you to fill paintballs by pushing them down but resist bending back out, hopefully keeping the paintballs in the hopper.

Hoppers are almost always constructed out of plastic. The particular formulation may vary, though, and some hoppers will be more brittle while others are more flexible. The thickness of the material will vary, as well. Some hoppers are transparent, while others are completely opaque.

Some hoppers include motors which help feed paintballs faster into the firing chamber. These generally come in one of two varieties: agitated or force fed. An agitated hopper contains a small motor that simply stirs the paintballs to keep them from forming a small bridge over the feedneck which will prevent paintballs from falling into the chamber. Some of these motors will run continuously, while others will only run when there are no paintballs in the feedneck. Agitated hoppers generally run on 9 volt batteries and they are faster than gravity fed hoppers.

Force fed hoppers include a motor but they force paintballs into paintball gun at an accelerated rate. They do this by offering a larger tray where paintballs are able to fall (so that multiple paintballs are falling at once) and then move those into the feedneck. There are many different designs to accomplish the same thing, with different designs using different configurations of motors and paddles that push the balls. Force fed hoppers can feed paintballs much faster than gravity fed or agitated hoppers. Some can deliver paintballs at around 30 balls per second.