New to hiking? No problem -- we'll cover everything you need to know right here, from getting the right hiking gear to planning and pulling off your first outdoor adventure.

Yes! Of course you should! Okay... maybe I'm a little biased. It's a big, wide world out there, and going for your first hike can mean taking a major step outside your comfort zone. It's worth it, though. Here are just a couple of the reasons I think you might get hooked on hiking.

Hiking can be challenging -- but that's also part of what makes it so rewarding! Here's what you need to know about the fitness part of hiking.



Don't need a lot of exposition on what to pack? These printable checklists are designed to help you get out on the trail as quickly as possible.

Are you a slackpacker, a dayhiker or a through-hiker? Let's unravel the meaning behind different approaches to hiking.

Your feet are at the heart of every hike -- keeping them happy means the rest of you will be happy, too. That starts with choosing the right hiking boots and shoes.

Think of hiking clothing as your own personal climate control system. You don't necessarily have to run out and buy a whole new wardrobe, but you should pay close attention to materials and fit. Here's what you need to know.

Going for a hike means living the relatively controlled environment of the city -- no pavement, no rest stations, no corner store to duck into in case of rain. Fortunately, if you plan right you can carry everything you need to stay warm, dry and comfortable. Start with the basics: Keep your feet protected, your body warm and dry, and everything else stowed in a backpack.

The farther you go into the wilderness, the more you need to depend on yourself to handle unexpected situations. Some might argue that the possibility of danger is a thrill, but I say the real rush is discovering just how competent and capable you really are. Here are the basics of handling some of the most common hazards you may encounter. 



Speaking of thrills, getting to see nature in all her varied wonder -- from thick forest to alpine tundra, water-sculpted desert canyons to open plains -- is one of the biggest. Here's how to safely traverse some of the many types of terrain you may encounter on a hike.

So you've got your backpack, your boots, your hiking poles -- but now what do you do with them? Here's how to efficiently wrangle your new hiking gear.

Going from hiking to backpacking is a natural progression. Here's how to make it smooth and comfortable.

Some people go hiking for solitude -- but if you take a popular trail you're guaranteed to run into others. You might even run into other hikers in the deep backcountry. Here's how to hike with respect toward other hikers and the land itself.

Bears aren't the only ones who poop in the woods! Here's how to transition gracefully from indoor plumbing to digging your own cat holes.

I strive to make About Hiking a comprehensive, authoritative resource for hiking information. But let's face it -- there are some mighty fine hiking books out there. For those who love a good book, here's my list of recommended reading.