Paintball costs money to play. There's no way around that. Consumables like air and paint are required every time you hit the field, so whether you are paying for them directly, or getting them from someone who does (such as filling your tank for free from a friend's fill station). But just because you have to spend some money doesn't mean you have to spend a lot of money. Here are three approaches that I have found that can save you money and make paintball relatively cheap to play.The quickest way to sap your paintball budget is by dishing out high paintball field fees. These come in a number of varieties. The first is simply the cost to play on a field, which can easily cost $30+ a day at many fields (or much more at others), excluding the cost of paintballs. Whether you play one game or all day, you're still out this money. Another fee is the cost of paintballs. Fields generally charge more for paintballs than your local paintball store. There are many reasons why they charge more (and there's heavy debate over whether those prices are justified), but the end result is that paintballs at the field generally cost more, sometimes twice as much, or even more, than elsewhere. A third type of field fee is participation in tournaments. While tournaments can be a lot of fun, they are expensive and will quickly sap your budget. Not only do you have to pay the entrance fee, but the cost of paintballs is high and you tend to shoot a lot of them. A team of five players can easily spend a thousand dollars on entrance fees and paintballs over a two-day tournament, with some teams spending multiple thousands of dollars.

Alternatives to playing at the field are based around private and public land. You can find many opportunities to play paintball on yours, or your friends' land. You can develop your own field and you have the flexibility to play all types of games with different objectives. You can also play on some public land and have an excuse to explore your area with your buddies.

For many people, though, playing at professional fields and in tournaments is the point of paintball. While they recognize that they could go and plan on private land, their focus is on the fields that come on professional land. These players can also play paintball relatively cheaply by being discerning. First, they have to identify fields that cost less to play on. They must evaluate their playing style and choose the best fields with the best prices (based on field fees and paint fees) for what they want. Second, they have to be willing to play less often. If you are going to the field on regular basis, it's not going to be cheap. Finally, they will have to be very choosey about which tournaments they enter. Tournaments can be huge money grabs, so players will need to only go to the ones that they are most excited about and will cost them the least.

Paintball equipment can quickly overwhelm your budget. To play paintball cheaply, you need to pay close attention to how much gear you buy and where you buy it. I recommend that you never buy new gear, that you carefully watch sales and you thoroughly evaluate what you need.

Paintball equipment does not hold its value well. This means that if you buy a new gun, it will quickly be worth a fraction of what you paid for it if you try to resell it. Rather than take that equity hit, you can save money by letting someone else do that for you. If you look for newer, used guns, you will be able to save a significant amount of the purchase price while still getting a very good piece of gear in return. You can find these guns on forums or on CraigsList.

You also need to pay attention to sales. Sometimes when a store needs to get rid of inventory there are some pretty good deals available on new gear. More importantly, though, there are often good deals to be had on paintballs and other non-reusable gear. Since you can't buy your paintballs used, you may as well get them when they're on sale.

Finally, you need to be very careful when deciding what gear you actually need. In many cases, the new piece of equipment you need will not help you play any better. Sure, the newer gun may be faster, lighter, smaller or cooler to look at, but will its marginal performance increases lead to better play? In many cases, the answer is no. If you are thinking of buying a gun that is in the same class as yours (such as switching between tournament markers), think long and hard about whether the cost is worth it. If you're switching between classes, such as from an introductory blowback to a tournament-level gun, that's a different issue. If you only buy what you really need, you'll make the game much cheaper in the long run.

The last suggestion is that you really try to limit how much paint you shoot. Paintballs themselves are often a major cause of why continuing play is expensive (assuming you own your own gear). Whether you hit someone one time or ten times, they are still out (and much angrier in the latter case). You only need to shoot enough to mark someone, so learn to shoot less. You can do this by training yourself to shoot less, by lowering how fast your hopper feeds or your gun shoots or by switching away from your current gun.

With a little bit of self-control, all players can learn to shoot fewer paintballs. If you just think about it a little during the game, you'll find that you use fewer. Even a reduction in 10% of your paintballs a game will quickly add up into meaningful savings.

If your self-control isn't enough, make it harder to shoot more paintballs. This can be done by changing your gun to shoot slower (applicable for guns with circuit boards) or by choosing a hopper that feeds slower. Since you can only shoot when there's a paintball in the chamber, if you slow down how quickly the get there, you slow down how quickly you can shoot. This can be done by getting a slower agitated hopper or by simply moving to a gravity-fed hopper.

Finally, if you really want to shoot less, move to a gun that does shoot less. This can be done by switching away from an electropneumatic to a mechanical gun or by going all the way to a pump. I have been playing primarily with a pump for several years and my enjoyment of the sport has not diminished, but my budget allocated to it has.

Paintball is going to cost more than other sports, simply because you have to regularly buy paintballs and air. That cost, though, does not have to be exorbitant. With a little forethought and preparation, you can continue to play paintball, but play it for less.