As with all games of paintball, remember to follow all safety rules , make sure everyone knows the rules before starting and always use common sense.

Revolutionary War is a paintball game variation that is suited for small groups of people and I have found is fun to play by a couple of players between larger games. It's also a fun way to finish off the day as players have a chance to compete one on one.

During the Revolutionary War the primary firearm was the musket. These smooth-bored, muzzle-loaded guns were slow to load, heavy to lug around and incredibly inaccurate, requiring armies to be extremely close to each other before the opposing lines could hope to hit the enemy. Paintball guns are much the same as muskets with a smooth bore and an inaccurate shot - even the most accurate gun can't consistently hit a target beyond 30-40 yards. This game relies on that inaccuracy to play.One caller, two players, two guns and no fear of pain.

Two players load their guns with five paintballs each. They then face each other at a distance of approximately 100 to 120 feet on flat ground. A third person acts as the caller and stands nearby (and always uses a mask).

The goal is for each of the players to be the first to shoot their opponent and have the paintball break. The players face each other and on the caller's yell of "STEP!" they each must take a step towards their opponent. The players may fire at any time, though when they run out of paintballs, they must continue to march or else resign (and lose). So, for example, a player may fire all five of their shots after the first step or shoot one paintball after each step or hold off shooting until they are much closer. If neither player has successfully hit the other player by the time they have reached an agreed upon distance (approximately 30 feet) or if both players completely run out of paintballs, then the game is a draw.The goal is to hit your opponent before your opponent hits you.There are two main things to keep in mind during Revolutionary War: waiting long enough so that you can actually hit your opponent while still shooting before your opponent shoots you. When players first start marching towards each other there is the inherent inaccuracy of their equipment to worry about - there's no guarantee that a paintball shot from 40 yards away will even hit what you are aiming at. Further, even if one player succeeds at hitting their opponent, there is the risk that the paintball will not break. If you wait too long, though, your opponent will hit you, so it is a balancing act between shooting too soon and wasting your shots and waiting too long and never pulling the trigger.

Another thing to keep in mind is how you will accurately aim your shots. As most paintballers can attest to, countless variables affect how a paintball travels from any breeze to the humidity to the quality of the specific paintball to the size of your barrel to the propellant you are using to countless other small things. Even paintball guns that are generally very consistent and accurate can have problems with consistently hitting their target on the first shot as small variations require a recalibration of aim, or "walking-in" the shot where players aim their second shot in response to how the first one fared. When you have only five shots, though, it is difficult to walk in your shot.

* Require each player to use a paintball pistol.* Require each player to fire their gun with only one hand and at arm's length (to further decrease accuracy).* Only allow each player one paintball.