Every player of every sport was once a novice who had never seen the field. At some point, they first stepped up and began competing. Many, though, do not remember their first game. My first time playing paintball, though, is something I will never forget. As I recount the story, which happened almost twenty years ago, it will be according to how I remember it. Some of the facts may not match up quite with reality, but this is how I remember things.My older brother, my younger brother and I had been on my dad's case for a while about trying out paintball. We had heard stories of the game and we knew people had played. The game sounded so exciting that we just had to try it out. Eventually, with enough coaxing, my dad agreed to take us.

One cold Saturday in 1994 we got dressed in clothing we thought was appropriate for paintball and headed to the closest indoor field. After finally locating the field in the middle of an industrial section of town, we headed in. While there was a large glass window that allowed us to see the field, the rest of the experience was awful. There was nobody at the desk to welcome us and there were players wandering around in a crowded staging area that doubled as an entrance to the field. There may have been someone who was in charge, but it was obvious that they were not interested in helping the dad and his sons as the focus was on some competitive players. After failing to get any information on renting equipment and actually playing paintball, we left the field.

I imagine that such disregard for new players was common as this field went out of business a short while later.

To appease his disappointed sons, my dad took us to a virtual reality arcade. While it was interesting, and gave a glimpse into the future, the actual game was disappointing and is memorable only as "the game we got to play instead of paintball".

Later, we rescheduled our trip and headed to the better-known, and more distant field. This, too, was an indoor field and had the awe-inspiring name of "Paintball Planet." Though this field has also since gone out of business, it lasted for many years and was "the" indoor field while I grew up.

The field itself was unique. The building originally was a skating rink and it had been re-purposed into a paintball field. the lower level had a relatively open space with bunkers scattered around and then one end had the "labyrinth" or "maze" (I can't remember know which the formal name was, but it has been called both when retelling the story) which consisted of relatively narrow hallways and offset rooms. What made the field exciting, though, was the second level. There was an open stairway at one end and a closed one at the other end. The second floor, which only covered about half of the field, was open so you could see players from above or below. The rule, though, was that you could not shoot between floors and you couldn't shoot players on the open staircase.

The field experience here couldn't have been more different from the one that I had at the first field. Immediately upon walking into the well-lite entrance there was someone at the desk to meet us and welcome us to the field. After filling out the appropriate waivers and paying our fees, we were escorted to the field staging area which was apart from the lobby.

After entering the staging area another employee was ready to provide us with equipment. He gave us each a pump paintball gun (for the life of me I can't remember what they were, but I believe they were original Trracers). After demonstrating how they work and explaining the safety rules, we were directed to another area where eliminated players were waiting for the next game to start. We were provided colored jerseys (we were all on the same team) and then the refs came in after the previous game finished and explained the rules of the specific game we were going to play. Finally, after what seemed like a lifetime of wanting to play paintball, we were going to actually play.

My first game I started on the second level of the field at one end. I don't remember where my brothers were, but I was with my dad, waiting for the game to start. I remember the adrenaline, nerves and anticipation as I waited for the game to start. Finally, the refs yelled "Game On!" and I ran towards the first bunker on the field and froze.

As is common among many new paintball players, I was convinced that if I so much as sneaked my head around to look I would be hit. After a few minutes, though, I decided that not seeing was worse than getting hit and I peeked around to see nobody. After nobody fired at me I slowly walked forward and hid behind another bunker. Still uncertain what to do I started to peak around and was promptly shot.

To this day I do not know where the shot came from. Over the course of hundreds of paintball game you develop a sense as to where shots are coming from when they are fired and when you are hit, even if you don't see the shooter, you almost always know approximately where they were. At this point in my development, though, I had no such sense and all I knew was that I was hit. I also knew that it didn't hurt to get hit. I had been hit in the jersey (made out of a plasticy fabric) and I imagine I heard the sound as much as felt the hit. At any rate, I walked off the field with my gun over my head and headed to the staging area knowing that this was definitely a game that I could get into. The initial jitters were gone and now I was determined to more than just participate, I wanted to compete

The next games were better than the first for me as I lasted longer and actually saw opposing players. I clearly remember one game where my team had almost eliminated the other team and I, following some players who clearly knew what they were doing, went through the labyrinth and "cleared" each of the rooms. During this trek I remember thinking that this is related to what police feel as I felt like I was on the movies going through a house looking for the bad guys. In the end we didn't see anyone that round, but it was a lot of fun and it taught me the value of moving

I also remember my last game before heading home. Our team decided to do a strong-side attack and we sent almost everyone up the open side of the field. After hiding behind a bunker I started peaking out and saw some opposing players and fired a few shots. Whether I hit one I don't know because I was hit squarely in the knuckle. My introduction to knuckle-shots taught me that paintablls can cause a little pain, but that it's really not that bad. I decided gloves would not be worth the hassle of wearing them and I still, to this day, do not play with gloves.

Throughout the day, I think I eliminated one other player. There's the distinct possibility that someone else on my team actually shot them, but I was firing at them and may have, with a little luck, hit the player. Either way, I felt a moral victory. I did, though, learn that paintball does take some time and effort to excel at. I came to appreciate that even more as I later met good players and aspired to play like them.

My biggest take away from my first day was that paintball is fun. The adrenaline and nervous pulse before a game are something that I haven't experienced with any other activity. The mix of strategy, skill and athletic prowess are not matched in other sports. Coupled with the joys of playing with the equipment and the friendships I've made, paintball was definitely something that has proven to be a bigger part of my life than I ever could have imagined that first game. And I mean that in the best way possible.