Paintball and Animals

Paintball is not generally a sport intended for animals, but sometimes they get involved.

Paintball and Animals

Paintball is not generally a sport intended for animals, but sometimes they get involved.

How to Stretch Before a Paintball Game

Stretching before paintball can help you have a safe, fun day of play.

Playing Paintball in Cold Weather

Paintball is not just a fair-weather sport. With proper planning and the right equipment you can play paintball in the snow, the rain or at night. In practice, though, playing paintball in adverse conditions tends to be problematic. In particular, the cold can cause a number of problems for paintball players. Here are the issues and a few...

Playing Paintball in Cold Weather

Paintball is not just a fair-weather sport. With proper planning and the right equipment you can play paintball in the snow, the rain or at night. In practice, though, playing paintball in adverse conditions tends to be problematic. In particular, the cold can cause a number of problems for paintball players. Here are the issues and a few...

Paintball Shoes

If your feet hurt, it's hard to play any sport. Take care of them and you'll enjoy the sport that much more.

Why Paintball Isn't On TV

When people think of sports for the masses they instantly think of the major team-sports: football, basketball, etc. Paintball, though, a team sport, just hasn't caught on in the eyes of the mainstream media.

What is a Paintball Waiver?

Before you play paintball at a professional field, you must always sign a waiver. This form doesn't mean you sign away all your rights, it's just an acknowledgement that paintball does have some risks.

Cleaning up Paintball Garbage

Part of playing paintball is being a good neighbor. Clean up your mess.

How to Reenergize While Playing Paintball

Paintball can take a lot out of you. Here are a few things to get your energy back.

My Favorite Part of Paintball

There's a lot to like about paintball. If I had to choose just one part, though, one aspect rises to the top.

Types of People Who Play Paintball

Paintball players come from all backgrounds, but some backgrounds are a little more represented than others.

Paintball in the Past

Paintball has changed a lot of the decades. Learn a little bit about how the game differed at the start of the sport.

The Worst People to Play Paintball With

Paintball can be enjoyed by everyone, but that doesn't mean you have to enjoy playing with everyone.

no title

Paintball originated in America and is played throughout the country today.