If you're a young squash, racquetball, or badminton player, here are tips so that you can best enjoy and learn your sport. If you're a parent, here's some counsel for the challenge of nurturing your junior athlete's competitive skills and good sportsmanship.

Top Ten Examples of Misbehavior by a Squash Player

Squash offers a lot of scope for bad behavior of all kinds. Here's how you can remain a good sport and a good competitor, by avoiding these examples of misbehavior in squash and by following good squash etiquette.

Start Your Child in Squash

There are several key steps to starting your kid in squash. And a few steps to avoid. Here's a parents' guide to starting your child in squash the right way, without pressure, and with maximum fun for your kid.

Jumping In To Junior Squash -- A Guide For Success

Squash can be a hard sport to begin, and a confusing one to understand. You should know that there is an excellent guide provided by US Squash that introduces juniors (and their parents) to everything they need to understand to succeed in competitive squash.

Play Safe Squash -- Know the Rules

Squash can actually be very dangerous, since there are two players running at full speed in a confined space, swinging racquets around while chasing a moving ball. Protective eyewear can help, but it's not the full solution. Knowing the rules is also essential. Here's where to go to learn the rules and stay safe.

Squash Game for Juniors - Playing "Moat Man"

Moat Man (or Alligator) is a great squash game for juniors, designed to help girls and boys learn to volley the ball in the air. And, it's fun!

Squash Game for Juniors - Playing "Power Zone"

Power Zone is a great squash game for juniors, designed to help girls and boys learn to control the center of the court. And, it's fun!

So You Want to Play Badminton in the Olympics?

With this advice from an instructor and these ideas from a world-class player, here's how you can get on the Olympic track as a badminton player.