There really are some essential gifts for any squash player, even if you don't want to purchase a new racquet for your player for fear of picking the wrong model or style. Here's how you can't go wrong in picking a Christmas or Hannukah or New Year's present for your squash player. Your gift will be much-appreciated, and they'll wonder how you knew!

A squash player's lifeline is his or her eyes. Keep them safe from harm, and improve the on-court quality of life for your player. Protective eyewear inevitably gets scratched, gets foggy, or gets distorted over time. There is nothing so nice as crystal clear vision on the squash court. A squash player's lifeline is his or her eyes. Keep them safe from harm, and improve the on-court quality of life for your player. Protective eyewear inevitably gets scratched, gets foggy, or gets distorted over time. There is nothing so nice as crystal clear vision on the squash court.

Feet take a pounding in squash, and good squash shoes go a long way to making the pounding more bearable. If you know your player's correct shoe size, you're all set to give a gift that's sure to be appreciated. Feet take a pounding in squash, and good squash shoes go a long way to making the pounding more bearable. If you know your player's correct shoe size, you're all set to give a gift that's sure to be appreciated.

Even if you don't know the right shoe size, you can certainly guess your player's correct sock size. New socks, well-padded, and made for tennis or any racquet sport, will be much appreciated. Get several pairs. Even if you don't know the right shoe size, you can certainly guess your player's correct sock size. New socks, well-padded, and made for tennis or any racquet sport, will be much appreciated. Get several pairs.

Squash is a very sweaty game. Your squash player may not have the habit of wearing headbands and wristbands, but they'll surely consider it if you give them a nice set. You can buy them in colors, or go with classic white. For many players, wristbands that keep sweat from getting on the racquet hand and headbands that keep sweat from getting into the player's eyes definitely help sustain the quality of play in a long squash match. Squash is a very sweaty game. Your squash player may not have the habit of wearing headbands and wristbands, but they'll surely consider it if you give them a nice set. You can buy them in colors, or go with classic white. For many players, wristbands that keep sweat from getting on the racquet hand and headbands that keep sweat from getting into the player's eyes definitely help sustain the quality of play in a long squash match.

Shorts do wear out over time. And the new fabrics dry quickly enough that they're comfortable quite soon after a long match. Be sure to get shorts that are cut roomy enough to allow unrestricted motion and full stretching lunges. Shorts do wear out over time. And the new fabrics dry quickly enough that they're comfortable quite soon after a long match. Be sure to get shorts that are cut roomy enough to allow unrestricted motion and full stretching lunges.

The squash warmup is often performed in full garb, while wearing a sweatsuit. Get a nice one, and be sure to buy a sweatsuit with pants that open wide at the cuff. No one likes to have to take off their shoes in order to take off sweatpants. Either get a zippered cuff or a snap-closure cuff. The squash warmup is often performed in full garb, while wearing a sweatsuit. Get a nice one, and be sure to buy a sweatsuit with pants that open wide at the cuff. No one likes to have to take off their shoes in order to take off sweatpants. Either get a zippered cuff or a snap-closure cuff.

It's a treat to play with a new or nearly new squash ball every time. Invest in a dozen brand-new balls! Your squash player will thank you. It's a treat to play with a new or nearly new squash ball every time. Invest in a dozen brand-new balls! Your squash player will thank you.

This is where you can really shine this Christmas or Hannukah. The quality of squash DVDs and tapes has really improved over the years, and there are some great offerings to help your squash player get new ideas about the game, learn new drills, and take his or her squash game to the next level. This is where you can really shine this Christmas or Hannukah. The quality of squash DVDs and tapes has really improved over the years, and there are some great offerings to help your squash player get new ideas about the game, learn new drills, and take his or her squash game to the next level.