Here's how to get started in badminton, how to improve, how to compete, and how to have fun. You'll also learn drills and competitive insights useful for intermediate and advanced badminton players and coaches.

Build a Home Badminton Court - An Official Home Badminton Court

Your home badminton court can be professional-grade. Here's how to build your home badminton court, for singles or doubles or both.

Olympic Badminton Medalists at the 2008 Beijing Olympics

Here are the Olympic badminton medalists from the 2008 Beijing Olympic badminton championships.

All About Olympic Badminton

Everything you need to know about Olympic badminton: past Olympic medal winners in badminton, rules for qualifying and playing Olympic badminton, Olympic badminton controversies, badminton photos, Beijing badminton prospects, and much more.

Learn to Play Badminton

Here are the fundamentals of learning to play badminton; all the key shots and techniques that can transform your backyard badminton into real competitive badminton.

Biggest Controversies in Olympic Badminton History

Olympic badminton controversies began even before the sport debuted in Barcelona in 1992. Controversies surround the selection process for the teams, the way funding is allocated to athletes and coaches, and potential conflicts of interest by committee members. And that's even before we look at controversial player behavior or controversial officiating!

A Profile of Badminton

Here are the key attributes of the sport of badminton. This short profile quickly gives you a sense of the sport of badminton, its worldwide popularity, and its great physical demands.

Learn the Laws of Badminton

Learning the official rules of badminton is a must, especially if you want to graduate from backyard play to competitive play. The good news is that the rules are so well documented, and so well thought-out, that they are labeled "laws" of badminton.

Hit a Good Serve

Every badminton point begins with a serve. When you are serving you are in the ideal situation; not rushed, with a good view of your opponent's position, and the ability to put the shuttle right where you want to hit it. Hit a good serve, and start the point right!

Increase Lower Arm Strength for Control

Most racquet sports require exceptional strength in the player's lower arm in order for them to fully control the racquet, and control their shot. Here's a great way to increase your lower arm strength.

Get the Right Badminton Equipment

Playing competitive badminton requires the right equipment. Here are some online sources for good badminton gear.