Here you can get a taste of some lesser-known racquet sports like platform tennis (paddle tennis), court tennis (real tennis, jeu de paume), racquets, pickleball, sticke, and xare.

A Tour of a Racquet-Swinger's Paradise

You can find everything for the racquets enthusiast at the Racquet Club of Philadelphia: squash, doubles squash, court tennis, racquets, pro shops, fine dining, swimming, lodging, and many amenities.

Court Tennis Tips - What to Do When Serving in Court Tennis

Court tennis is so complex that what you need to do when serving is entirely different than what you need to do when you're receiving serve. Here are essential court tennis tips for the server, in a summary form that you can put in your racquet case for handy reference whenever you change to the serving side of the court tennis court.

Court Tennis Tips - What to Do When Receiving Serve in Court Tennis

Court tennis is so complex that what you need to do when receiving serve is entirely different than what you need to do when you're serving. Here are essential court tennis tips for the receiver, in a summary form that you can put in your racquet case for handy reference whenever you change sides of the court tennis court.

A Profile of Court Tennis

Here's what court tennis is all about. This short profile gives you a sense of the sport of court tennis, its unique features, complexity, and rich history.

A Profile of Jai Alai

Jai alai is an incredibly fast ball game, usually played by teams, and usually the subject of intense spectator interest and gambling. Here's a short description of this fascinating racquet (okay, basket) sport.

A Profile of Pickleball

Here is an overview of the easy-to-learn sport of pickleball. This short profile gives you a sense of the appeal of pickleball, its appropriateness for players of all ages, and the ease of starting to play this fun sport.

A Profile of Platform Tennis

Platform tennis, or 'paddle', is a great game for year-round fun. This short profile gives the highlights and introduces you to one racquet sport that doesn't even require strings on the racquet.

A Profile of Racquets

The historic game of Racquets, Rackets, or Hard Racquets is still played today, though at a small number of clubs in the United States. This short profile gives you a sense of why enthusiasts at seven clubs in the US are striving to keep this wonderful game alive.

A Profile of Sticke Tennis

Sticke Tennis is a game that used to be more popular than it is today. Here is a brief description of the game that can give you a flavor for the sport.

Court Tennis - The Most Complex Racquet Sport

Court Tennis is a complex game, and its unique features make it the most complicated racquet sport. These four major complexities are found in no other racquet sports.