This hiking gear guide will help you find the best hiking clothing and equipment -- even mobile apps for hikers -- for use in any conditions.

Everything You Need to Hit the Trail

Our comprehensive guide to the best hiking gear, including how to shop for it.

A Ten Essentials Checklist for Hikers

Have you packed the ten essentials? Here's a quick, printable checklist to help you make sure.

The Ten Essentials for Hikers

"The Ten Essentials" is a concise list of must-have equipment for backcountry travel. Here's how it applies to hikers.

Essential Hiking Gear You Can't Do Without

Everyone has a slightly different version of what you should carry on a hike, but these four essentials will always be on the list.

The Best Books for Hikers

From instructional materials to gripping true tales, these are my favorite hiking-related reads.

How to Choose the Right Hiking Gear

This quick buying guide introduces you to the essentials of purchasing hiking gear. If you want more information about shopping for any type of gear, just click the "Read more" link.

How Gear (and Clothing) Tests Work

Are you wondering how I test hiking gear, and where I get it from? I've got your answers right here!

What's in My Hiking Emergency Kit

The right emergency kit is a balance between preparedness and convenience. Here's a look at what one experienced hiker carries, and why.

How to Attach Snowshoes To Your Backpack

Snowshoes are a great tool for winter and spring hiking -- but carrying them by hand gets old fast. Here's how to attach them to your pack instead.

What to Take on Your First Day Hike

Wondering what to pack for your first day hike? Here's the answer!

Backpacks By the Numbers: Sizing and Buying Guide

Wondering what size backpack you need, or how to go about buying it? Start here.

Hiking Book Review: Snow Sense by Jill Fredston and Doug Fesler

Hikers can get caught in avalanches too. Fortunately they're not random, and this book -- Snow Sense by Jill Fredston and Doug Fesler -- is one of the best tools for learning how to avoid avalanches in the backcountry.

The Best Hiking Boots

A list of my favorite hiking boots based on fit, traction, protection and support.

What Hiking Gear Can I Take on a Plane?

Are you combining travel with hiking? Here's what hiking gear you can and can't take on a plane with you.

How to Put on Gaiters

Gaiters keep snow and mud from creeping into your boots and pants legs. Here's how to put them on.

The Best Light Hiking Shoes

After extensive hands-on testing, I pick the best light hiking shoes on the market.

Daily Deal Sites That Feature Hiking Gear

A roundup of quick-deal sites that frequently feature hiking gear.

Q & A With Buystand CEO Joe Davy

Get the inside line on how Buystand works, and where it's going from here, in an interview with Buystand CEO Joe Davy.

Nifty Things You Can Do With a Bandana

The best hiking gear serves multiple purposes. Case in point: The humble bandana.

Gear Reviews

Wondering which gear is best? Check out these frank, thorough reviews from experienced hikers.

Why Shouldn't I Wear Cotton While Hiking?

Yes, wearing cotton really can kill you -- if worn under the wrong circumstances. Here's what that means.

How to Attach Hiking Poles to Your Backpack

Here's how to put your hiking poles away so you can hike hands-free.

The Budget Gift Guide for Hikers

Hikers will love these inexpensive gifts, many of which cost less than $20.

How Long Should My Trekking Poles Be?

Trekking poles can be a great tool on the trail -- but only if they're the right length. Here's a quick test for making sure you've got the right size pole.

Where to Buy Inexpensive Hiking Gear

A roundup of the best places to buy premium gear at great discounts.

How to Use Hiking Poles

Hiking poles aren't absolutely necessary on the trail, but they do come in handy if you struggle with stability, or if you encounter certain trail conditions.

Hiking Gear: SmartWool PhD HyFi Full-Zip Hoody for Women

The SmartWool PhD HyFi full-zip hoody is pricey, but worth the cost.

The Pros and Cons of Common Backpacking Shelters

A summary of the advantages and disadvantages of various backpacking shelters, including tarps, bivy sacks and freestanding tents.

3 Questions to Ask About Everything in Your Pack

Lighten up! Next time you pack for a hike, use these three questions to reduce weight and bulk.

3 Tips to Make Your Sleeping Bag Last Longer

Three tips for making sure your sleeping bag lasts as long as possible, and keeps you as warm as possible in the meantime.

Merino Wool vs. Synthetic Fabrics: Which is Best?

You already know you shouldn't wear cotton on a hike. That leaves wool and synthetics as the best clothing choices.

How to Pack a Backpack

Follow these tips to keep everything in your backpack ready-to-hand when you need it, and nicely balanced so it rides comfortably in the pack.