Here's how to get started in racquetball, how to improve, how to compete, and how to have fun. You'll also learn drills and competitive insights useful for intermediate and advanced racquetball players and coaches.

How to Perform the Racquetball Back Wall Drive Drill

The back wall drive drill is a great racquetball practice session. It teaches you how to hit good forehand drives off of your opponent's shot coming off the back wall. Here's how to perform the racquetball back wall drive drill to best effect.

Racquetball Crosscourt Drive Serve - How to Hit the Crosscourt Drive Serve

Here are nine easy steps to hitting a good crosscourt drive serve in racquetball. When you mix the racquetball crosscourt drive serve with your straight drive, lob, and z serves, you will have your opponent guessing and frustrated.

Racquetball Z Serve - How to Hit a Good Racquetball Z Serve

Here are ten easy steps to hitting the Z serve in racquetball. Being able to hit the Z serve, using the same service preparation as for the straight and cross-court drive serves, gives you a great way to keep your opponent guessing.

Racquetball Drive Serve - The Racquetball Drive Serve Viewed From the Front

The racquetball drive serve is a great way to start a winning point. Here is how to hit that serve well, as seen from the front of the court.

Racquetball Drive Serve - From the Back

This shows the racquetball drive serve in step-by-step fashion, as viewed from behind the server. Eight easy steps to a perfect racquetball drive serve, as demonstrated by T. J. Baumbaugh.

Racquetball Lob Serve - How to Hit a Good Racquetball Lob Serve

These six steps show you how to hit a good racquetball lob serve every time. A well-hit racquetball lob serve is effective, and gives you time to prepare for the return.

Racquetball Forehand Drop and Hit Drill - Back View

The best solo practice for racquetball includes the forehand drop and hit drill. Here's how to perform the drill so you improve your forehand as quickly as possible.

Racquetball Grip - Start With the Correct Racquetball Grip

Holding the racquet correctly is the beginning of effective hitting in racquetball. Learn the correct racquetball grip to hit with pace and precision.

Racquetball Forehand Drop and Hit Drill - Front View

The best solo practice for racquetball includes the forehand drop and hit drill. Here's how to perform the drill so you improve your forehand as quickly as possible.

A Profile of Racquetball

Here are the key attributes of the sport of racquetball. This short profile quickly gives you a sense of the excitement and accessibility of racquetball, as well as its broad appeal to players throughout North America.

Learn the Rules of Racquetball

You'll play better if you know all the rules of regulation racquetball. Begin with a sound understanding of the definitive rules of the game!

Hit a Good Serve

Your serve is only shot that you control entirely. You have time, you have placement, you have opportunity. In fact, every racquetball point begins with a serve. Learn how to hit it well, and you will be starting on a great path forward.

Racquetball Defense - The Ceiling Ball is the Best Racquetball Defense

When you're under pressure, the ceiling ball is the best racquetball defense. It gives you time to safely get back into position. Here are three quick tips for how to employ this racquetball defense.

Go to Racquetball Camp to Improve Quickly

Get a real boost for your racquetball game. Attend a weekend or week-long camp, and take your game to the next level! Here are a few things you should know in advance, as well.

Things to Avoid When Playing Racquetball

When you play racquetball, the walls, the ball, and your racquet can work together to create just what you want. Or not. Here are a few things to avoid.