One of the most common questions asked about downhill skiing is how fast skiers go.

This past ski season, I was really surprised by the growing number of skiers who were trying cross country skiing for the first time. The golf course near my home is converted each winter into a looping, groomed series of trails that are excellent for learning how to cross country ski. Lessons are provided each morning and afternoon. All season long, every time I passed the bunny area, there seemed to be anywhere from a few couples to whole families, and social groups lined up and learning to balance on skinny skis. If you judge the popularity of a sport by the focus that well-known brand manufacturers are putting on research and development, you'll be pleasantly surprised to learn that cross country skis, boots, poles and apparel getting a lot of attention. Rossignol, in particular, is leading a reassessment of resources geared at the cross country market and will be debuting some  cool looking CC gear for 2014-15. I think much of this attention to cross country skiing may be an outgrowth of the growing popularity of alpine touring, but no matter why it's becoming more popular, cross country skiing is good for the mind, body and soul. The sport puts you outside in nature, where winding your way through forest trails or even over a golf course offers a great opportunity to enjoy the beauty of winter - not to mention the excellent workout your body is getting. One person who genuinely knows and appreciates the best of cross country skiing is Thom Perkins. Thom was the Executive Director of the largest cross country ski area in the Eastern United States for thirty-eight years and is one of the founders, a former president and current Board Member Emeritus of Cross Country Ski Areas Association. Thom is bringing his knowledge and love of the sport of Cross Country skiing to About.com Skiing readers with a series of articles discussing the how, where, when and much more about the sport. Read Thom's How to Get Started Cross Country Skiing, bookmark it and check back soon for more about Cross Country from Thom Perkins.

I talked about the semantic difference between what we generally call 'backcountry' and what we call 'sidecountry' and the most important thing to remember is that when you exit the resort through an open gate you are in effect in unpatrolled terrain not subject to avalanche control work. Now the dilemma arises, especially in the west. There have been several strong spring storm cycles and there is plenty of good looking, tempting snow - but most of the ski areas have ceased operation. Of course, hiking and skinning up is going to happen so, cut to the chase - no more semantics - it's all backcountry. Skiing on steep terrain in the boundaries of a closed ski area that is not performing avalanche mitigation work can be as dangerous as backcountry. In fact, after a major spring snowstorm with high water content, the terrain that has been subject to avalanche control work in the past may be more apt to slide under the effect of a human trigger because it's now set on a relative persistent slab of snow that had been subject to sun and refreeze. So, the bottom line after the resorts cease operations is to treat all terrain in and around a closed ski area as 'backcountry.' Check your local Avalanche Advisories, be aware of and stay clear of terrain traps, don't ski it alone and tell someone where you are going. If you are thinking of skinning and skiing a closed ski are don't just listen to my warning. Heed this, from the Utah Avalanche Center, "Remember, most of the ski resorts are closed for the season with no avalanche control, so treat it just like backcountry terrain." Be avalanche smart and avalanche safe, and erase that sense of imagined 'sidecountry' safety that still prompts people to exit resort gates and ski closed resorts without the minimum avalanche first responder gear - avalanche beacon, probe, shovel - and a partner. Read More: Backcountry or Sidecountry | Avalanche Beacon, Probe, and Shovel

Jay Peak Resort, Killington Resort, and Sugarbush Resort will be spinning lifts and shredding soft bumps and groomer track on over 50 trails this first weekend in May. Saturday, May 3, 2014 marks the 192nd day in operation for Killington Resort. That adds up to over six months of skiing and riding, and made it possible for skiers and riders to ski 8 out of 12 months of the year; and there is no end in near sight. "Killington is approaching day 200 of this season, and we are excited for yet another May on snow," said Killington Communications Manager Michael Joseph. "We received over four inches of fresh snow last week and remain optimistic about our spring skiing outlook; so much so that we have not yet set a closing date." Jay Peak's bragging rights don't stop at being open in May. They have the most terrain open with 38 trails and an average of 15-30" of base snowpack. "No one up here can remember ever having close to 50% of our trails open in May," said Jay Peak's JJ Toland. "Even the duct tape-wrapped diehards are ready to see some grass. We're all ready for a nap." But don't think Vermont resorts are starting to hibernate in spring. Sugarbush will be opening their golf course along with re-opening 18 trails on Saturday so you can get the best of both worlds. "To be able to stay open this late into the season with 18 trails is amazing," said Sugarbush Communications Coordinator John Bleh. "Not only that, but our golf course is opening this weekend, so we'll have 18 trails to ski and 18 holes to golf!"

The Intrawest Passport is the first-ever Ski Pass to Redefine "Family Pass" and will offer children 12 and under free skiing, as well as redefine what a "Family Pass" is all about. Intrawest Resorts Holdings, Inc., the parent company of several North American ski resorts, announced today the introduction of The Intrawest Passport, a season pass that includes six days of skiing at each of six participating North American ski resorts. The Intrawest Passport, a first of its kind in the industry, is designed to make destination skiing easier and offer more flexibility and value for families in the 2014-2015 season. "Times are changing and so is the traditional family structure. Intrawest understands those changes," said Bill Jensen, CEO, Intrawest Resorts. "Whether you're a traditional, single parent, or tri-generational family we've created The Intrawest Passport to give your family the most flexibility and affordability to come ski or snowboard our mountains." With no blackout dates the flexibility means families can use The Intrawest Passport to travel on holidays or whenever it's easiest for them. The Intrawest Passport's price is being offered on a sliding scale, with the primary adult Passport offered at $589, additional adults at $449, 13-20 year olds at $249, and children 12 and under are free. "Skiing has been passed on from parent to child for several generations. We want to encourage the passion for the sport of skiing and snowboarding for the next generation by offering true value to families," Jensen explains. The Intrawest Passport will allow you to ski/ride for six days during the 2014-2015 ski season at each of Steamboat Springs and Winter Park in Colorado; Blue Mountain in Ontario; Mont Tremblant in Quebec; Stratton Mountain in Vermont; and Snowshoe Mountain in West Virginia. The biggest differentiators for The Intrawest Passport are children 12 and under ski free. The pass offers the flexibility to define your "family" the way it works best for a skiing family, i.e. - you can include extended family members, stepfamilies, non-traditional families and even good friends that are like family. After the first primary adult pass is purchased, families can purchase up to 15 additional Passports, including: Five additional discounted adult Passports for $449 each Five Teen Passports for $249 each Extended age for "Teen" Passport: allows teens and young adults through age 20 to receive the discount. The Intrawest Passport only requires one adult pass to be purchased, which means a single parent and up to five children can all ski at six resorts, for a total of 36 days each for as low as $589. The Intrawest Passport is available for purchase at Intrawest Passport or at the Resorts: