The Intrawest Passport is the first-ever Ski Pass to Redefine "Family Pass" and will offer children 12 and under free skiing, as well as redefine what a "Family Pass" is all about.

Intrawest Resorts Holdings, Inc., the parent company of several North American ski resorts, announced today the introduction of The Intrawest Passport, a season pass that includes six days of skiing at each of six participating North American ski resorts.

The Intrawest Passport, a first of its kind in the industry, is designed to make destination skiing easier and offer more flexibility and value for families in the 2014-2015 season.

"Times are changing and so is the traditional family structure. Intrawest understands those changes," said Bill Jensen, CEO, Intrawest Resorts. "Whether you're a traditional, single parent, or tri-generational family we've created The Intrawest Passport to give your family the most flexibility and affordability to come ski or snowboard our mountains."

With no blackout dates the flexibility means families can use The Intrawest Passport to travel on holidays or whenever it's easiest for them. The Intrawest Passport's price is being offered on a sliding scale, with the primary adult Passport offered at $589, additional adults at $449, 13-20 year olds at $249, and children 12 and under are free.

"Skiing has been passed on from parent to child for several generations. We want to encourage the passion for the sport of skiing and snowboarding for the next generation by offering true value to families," Jensen explains.

The Intrawest Passport will allow you to ski/ride for six days during the 2014-2015 ski season at each of Steamboat Springs and Winter Park in Colorado; Blue Mountain in Ontario; Mont Tremblant in Quebec; Stratton Mountain in Vermont; and Snowshoe Mountain in West Virginia.

The biggest differentiators for The Intrawest Passport are children 12 and under ski free. The pass offers the flexibility to define your "family" the way it works best for a skiing family, i.e. - you can include extended family members, stepfamilies, non-traditional families and even good friends that are like family. After the first primary adult pass is purchased, families can purchase up to 15 additional Passports, including:

The Intrawest Passport only requires one adult pass to be purchased, which means a single parent and up to five children can all ski at six resorts, for a total of 36 days each for as low as $589.

The Intrawest Passport is available for purchase at Intrawest Passport or at the Resorts: