Hiking safety means planning ahead and being aware of possible dangers on the trail. Changing weather, wildlife encounters, and injuries can turn a great day of hiking into a sudden emergency. The odds are that you won't face any serious problems. But educate yourself about hiking safety with these tips.

Hiking Safety: How to Cross a River

Knowing how to cross a river is an essential hiking skill. Preparation is key and so too is the ability to assess stream flow and determine a course of action.

What to Do If You Get Lost on a Hike

You can do a lot to prevent getting lost on a hike, but sometimes it happens. Here's how to get ready for it beforehand, and how to handle it once you realize you're lost.

How to Hike Alone

Hiking alone goes contrary to some of the best safety advice out there. But if you're going to go solo, might as well do it safely; here are a few things to keep in mind.

Tips for Hiking on Exposed Terrain

Sometimes hiking and climbing overlap. Learn how to physically and mentally get a handle on hiking across steep, exposed terrain.

From Hiking Varied Terrain to Surviving Unexpected Emergencies

From traversing varied terrain to handling unexpected emergencies, here's how to survive -- and thrive -- on the trail.

How to File a Hiking Trip Plan

File a trip plan. Every time. Here's how.

Why Shouldn't I Wear Cotton While Hiking?

Here's why cotton isn't the best clothing of choice for most outdoor adventures.

How to Stay Oriented While Hiking in Fog

Don't get lost in the fog -- or at least don't get more lost. Here's how to stay oriented and potentially find yourself again.

How to Return From a Hike Safely and On Time

Getting back safely and on time isn't rocket science -- in fact, it's mostly common sense.

Rookie Mistakes to Avoid

Sometimes experienced hikers make these mistakes, too. Either way, if you're avoiding the things on this list, you're doing pretty well.

Skills Every Hiker Should Master

Mastering these skills will make you a smarter, safer hiker.

Flash Flood Safety for Hikers

Learn how to avoid flash floods while hiking.

Lost-Proofing for Hikers

Life is a whole lot easier if you don't get lost in the first place. Here are six tricks to help keep you on track.

Safety Tips for Hikers

Don't stress! Use these tips and tricks to make sure you stay safe on the trail.

Staying Safe on the Trail

No need to feel intimidated by the outdoors! Here's the basic know-how you need to stay safe.

Top Screw-Ups to Avoid On Your Next Hike

Hiking is mostly a common-sense endeavor -- but these dangerous mistakes crop up over and over again.

4 Reasons to Leash Your Dog in the Backcountry

Four reasons why hikers with dogs should keep their leash handy -- even in the backcountry.

Car Skills Every Hiker Needs

Learn about five basic repairs every hiker should be able to do on their car, to keep herself from getting stranded at a remote trailhead.