Cross country skiing can become a life sport and a way of living that is fun and physically rewarding.

One has to wonder - why do we ski? First we have to look at the crystals we call snow.  Snowflakes hold legendary fascination with children around the world.  Snow comes in all sizes and shapes.  It blankets the ground and we catch the flakes on our tongues while they fall.

Then we discover snow is slippery.  It is this slipperiness that we exploit for the art of cross country skiing.  Once rewarded with a positive experience cross country skiing becomes a life sport and a way of living that is just fun and physically rewarding.

Origins of skiing comes from the need to travel over the snow covered landscape and goes back to ancient times.  So why do we modern humans ski?  I ski because it's the closest thing to flying that I can do without an airplane.  But there are many reasons that people ski.

Cross country skiing is called by many names:

And cross country skiing has many faces - it can be:

How to Get Started Cross Country Skiing

Likely you decide to try the sport or a friend or family member will invite you to give it a go.  So how should one start?  First, if possible, I would recommend starting at a place that has groomed trails and has a full service facility designed for cross country skiing.  Cross Country Ski Areas Association has a list of all the ski areas in North America.

Look for lessons taught by a professionally certified ski instructor.  You will learn faster and retain friendships.  I have seen many people give up when attempting to try cross country skiing on their own or taught by a friend or spouse.

Don't expect too much on your first attempt at skiing.  The first day of the season is hard even for experienced skiers.  If you are lucky yours will be fun and adventurous.  I have seen too many people give up after they have been talked into ski outings that are too ambitious or too steep for their first experience.

I would recommend a minimum of three lessons - four is even better.  It is a very small investment in time and dollars to gain a life sport experience that returns rewards multifold of the first few outings.  Besides, lessons are fun so don't worry about decreasing your limited leisure time by taking a lesson.  A good instructor will make the lessons a part of your leisure time.

A well-groomed trail with a track guides your skis allowing you to concentrate on moving forward.   If you ski on ungroomed or untracked trails you need to expend energy keeping your skis going in the right direction.

Groomed trails provide a consistent surface.  This gives you the ability to quickly progress in your technique.  Once good classical technique is learned and becomes second nature, it is easy to translate that technique to skate technique on a flat groomed surface or back-country untracked trails.

Read More: Get Ready to Take a Cross Country Skiing Lesson