Here's a list of various events and activities going on through the rest of March at Vermont ski resorts. Get out and get on the spring snow and enjoy the apres-ski.

March 17, Q Burke Mountain - St. Patty's Day Apres Party at Q Celebrate St. Patty's Day at the Bear Dean featuring Guinness -3pm -6pm.

 More Information: Q Burke Mountain

March 17, Sugarbush Resort - St. Patrick's Day at Mt. Ellen Celebrate St. Patrick's Day with live music, Irish food. beverage specials, and $17 Mt. Ellen lift tickets.

 More Information: Sugarbush Resort

March 21-23, Smugglers Notch Resort - US AirBag Tour - A big air, big fun weekend at Smugglers' is guaranteed with US AirBag set up in Smugglers' Zone terrain park for skiers and riders who want to take a jump, show off a trick and enjoy the cushioned landing.

 More Information: Smugglers' Notch Resort

March 21 - 23, Sugarbush Resort - Nantucket Island Fever spreads to Sugarbush this March. Nantucket's official radio station WACK.FM hosts a variety of island businesses at Sugarbush for live music and beach party activities, including a beverage tasting from Cisco Brewers. 

More Information: Sugarbush Resort

March 22, Bromley Mountain - Spring Fling - The Bromley family favorite sun-soaked (or just plain soaked) event is back for another year. Featuring pond skimming, a duct tape derby, live music, a BBQ and even some rides from our summer adventure park! Registration for pond skimming and duct tape derby will begin at 9am in the base lodge. 

More Information: Bromley Mountain

March 22, Magic - Spring Fling at Magic celebrates spring skiing weather with a fun race, flamingo toss from the chair and a big cook-out on the deck.

More Information: Magic

March 22, Burke Mountain - Kingdom Plaza Rail Jam and Corona Beach Party - Come to the end of season rail jam throw down at Mid-Burke. Prizes, Corona and music from Live Wire DJ.

More Information: Burke Mountain

March 23, Bolton Valley - Subaru and Hyundai Day - Subaru and Hyundai owners earn a free lift ticket that begins at noon as well as the opportunity to purchase up to three additional lift tickets at a 50% discount.

More Information: Bolton Valley

March 23, Bromley Mountain - 3rd Annual Rando Race - Rando - short for randonnee - ski racing hearkens back to skiing's early years, when skiers challenged the mountain both up and down, without the help of chairlifts. Using climbing "skins" with alpine touring or telemark bindings (or even "split" snowboards), racers start at the base of the mountain, ascend it, then descend it (on marked in-bounds ski area trails), as fast as possible, over multiple laps, up to 5,000' cumulative vertical.

More Information: Bromley Mountain

March 23, Okemo Mountain Resort - Bumps & Bamboo - The '80s are back and you get bonus points while ripping the race course or sashaying through the bumps if you're doing it in your best retro ensemble. Participants will take a timed run through the race course and through the mogul field in springtime freedogger style.

 More Information: Okemo Mountain Resort

March 28-30 - Okemo Mountain Resort - Mountain Dew Vertical Challenge Finals - The Mountain Dew Vertical Challenge Race Series is a free, fun race open to skiers and boarders all ages and abilities. Join in the fun and the excitement of this race series with the season finale at Okemo.

 More Information:Okemo Mountain Resort

March 29, Bolton Valley - Pond Skimming - just $5 per skimmer, you must have a lift ticket or season pass to enter. Skimmers use skis or boards to attempt to skim the pond. 10am - Noon: Registration in the Base Lodge. 1pm: Skimming begins! 3pm: Awards. We'll be awarding a 2014-15 All Access Season Pass to one adult and one youth winner. Winners need to have an outstanding costume and a solid skim.

More Information: Bolton Valley

March 29, Q Burke Mountain - Pond Skimmin' annual event on Lower Warren's Way, next to the BMA Warming Hut. 

More Information: Burke Mountain

March 29, Stratton Mountain Resort - Cabot Cheeseburgers & Bonks Rail Jam - Nothing goes together like cheeseburgers and rail jams. The return of Stratton's favorite springtime rail jam, show off the season's tricks on Tyrolienne and compete for prizes and swag. Free cheeseburgers for all. Registration at 9:30am.

More Information: Stratton Mountain Resort

March 29, Sugarbush Resort - Pond Skimming: The Annual Rite of Spring is the oldest continually running pond skimming event in the country, dive right into spring in your craziest costume. Limited to the first 100 competitors.

More Information: Sugarbush Resort

March 30, Okemo Mountain Resort - Cardboard Box Race - Bring out your inner inventor and build your own cardboard-box creation to race down the tubing course at Okemo's Jackson Gore. 

 More Information:Okemo Mountain Resort

March 30, Okemo Mountain Resort - Cares and Shares Spring Food Drive - Donate a minimum of five nonperishable food items and ski or ride on March 30 for $39. All donations go to local food banks.

 More Information:Okemo Mountain Resort