Killington Ski Resort is something of a micro-town in its own right. Although there's no "town center," the Access Road runs up to the mountain like the resort's artery. You're not likely to get bored once you read the mountain - after all, it's the second highest peak in Vermont - but if you're in the area, you should save some time for exploring all that the Green Mountains have to offer. 



 Here's a list of the top 20 things to do in Killington, Vermont.

Killington Ski Resort isn't called 'The Beast of the East' for nothing. The resort is comprised of six different peaks, totaling 92 miles of terrain that's all yours. Make it a goal to hit each mountain when you're there, from Ramshead to Sunrise.

2. Take on The Stash Located at Killington's Bear Mountain and accessible from the Sky Peak Express Quad, The Stash is the brainchild of Killington's snow engineers and the Burton Team. The terrain park has a unique natural design - fallen logs to jump over, wooden walls to ride over, hidden pow stashes to mine - that's designed to be as challenging to you as it is friendly to the environment.

The Superstar trail snakes down the face of Killington. It's a long, steep run - sometimes bumped up - that will have you crying out for more, even as your quads are burning. Fortunately, you can ski right to the Superstar Quad at the base of the run and loop the trail as many times as your thighs can stand it.

If you're looking for a release after you've done Superstar, don't forget about Killington's Sunrise Mountain. With gentle groomers and a pretty, wooded view, Sunrise is sometimes forgotten about but is a nice place to play for an hour or two. Trails to check out include Sassafras and Juggernaut, as well as a few meandering paths that'll bring you through the trees without letting you pick up too much speed.

Outer Limits is the steepest mogul run in the East, and if you have the skills (and bravado!) to tackle a gut-wrenching incline and toothy bumps at the same time, Outer Limits has got to be on your bucket list. Keep in mind it's a double black diamond - so steer clear if you aren't an expert. But, if you're an advanced skier, Outer Limits is probably the most thrilling trial you'll find on this side of the Mississippi. Killington occasionally offers mogul camps if you want to hone your skills.

To some skiers, glade skiing is something of the storybooks, a mythologized feat not to be attempted unless one possesses the skills to back it up. "Ski good or eat wood," as the saying goes. There's a nugget of truth in that colloquialism, as the glades require a high level of ability, a partner willing to take on the trees, and knowledge of tree skiing safety. For those who want an easy start, Killington's Ramshead Mountain is the place to go. Squeeze Play is a blue square trail with a forgiving incline and widely-spaced trees.

Killington Ski Resort includes Pico as its seventh peak, and for good reason. Pico Mountain has been the home of classic New England skiing and riding for more than 70 years. Its 48 trails and 1967 feet of veritcal include a diverse range of terrain, from Pike, a mile-long trail that meanders from summit to base, to Giant Killer, a steep double-black. There's something for everyone at Pico. 



If you've ever skied Killington you're probably familiar with the sugary sweet smell at the base of the K-1 Gondola, Ramshead, Skyeship or Bear Mountain. It's the whiff of waffles - baked fresh with caramelized sugar and a drizzle of chocolate, if you desire. The perfect compliment to hot cocoa, you can't ski Killington without trying a waffle.

When the chairs close and its time for dinner, head over to Casey's Caboose, an American restaurant on the Killington Access Road. Request to sit in the caboose for a unique dining experience. You'll see what we mean.

If you're craving Italian, Peppino's is by far the best place to get it. Tucked away at the very beginning of the Access Road, it's one of those places you might not think to stop at, but you'll be glad when you do. To fuel up for your next day on the slopes, make sure to try their delicious penne a la vodka.