Ski tips for all levels of skiers, from tips for beginning skiers to tips for those with advanced skiing skills.

Skiing Tips A - Z

Skiing tips and techniques to help you get started on the ski slopes if you're a beginner, and to refine your technique if you're a more experienced skier.

Beginner Skier Tips

When you're a beginning skier, it's important to get started skiing with appropriate gear and lessons, and to know the basics of navigating your way up and down a mountain. These skiing tips for beginners will help you get started

Ski Tips for Advanced Skiers

No matter how advanced of a skier you are, you can always improve. Even if you're confident on difficult trails, you should actively keep working on your form, technique, and balance, because it will only help your skiing. Read on for advanced skiing tips.

Ski Tips for Intermediate Skiers

If you're an intermediate skier, you may be wondering how to advance off the blues and take on the harder stuff, like glades, moguls, and steeps. However, it's necessary to master the basics and develop a strong, confident ski stance before moving on. These tips will show you how to refine your skiing technique.

Skiing Tips

Skiing tips and techniques to help you get started on the ski slopes if you're a beginner, and to refine your technique if you're a more experienced skier.

How to Ski

Do you want to get an idea of what's involved in learning how to ski? Here's an overview, along with step-by-step information on how to ski.

How to Become a Ski Instructor

Are you interested in becoming a ski instructor? If you're passionate about skiing, and want to share your knowledge with other people, it might just be the job for you. Here's more on how to become a ski instructor.

How to Keep Your Hands Warm Skiing

Cold hands is a chronic problem among skiers, and sometimes, it seems frigid fingers are simply unavoidable. But, cold hands don't have to result in ski days cut short. There are plenty of ways to keep your hands warm, even on the coldest days. Here are the top 15 tips on keeping your hands warm while skiing

How to Keep Your Feet Warm Skiing

Don't let cold feet keep you a prisoner of the lodge. There are several ways to keep your feet warm while skiing, many of which are easy and simple solutions. Here are the top 15 tips for keeping your feet warm on the slopes.

How to Be a Ski Bum

If you live and breathe skiing, you probably think that ski bums live quite an envied life - one that, of course, centers around skiing. There's a lot more to being a ski bum, though. Here's how to start.

How to Start a Ski Club

Ski clubs are a great way to make it to the mountain more often than you might be able to on your own, while also making friends. If you're in high school or college and can't find a ski club to join, then you should start one! Here are some tips on starting a ski club.

Sweetspot Ski Trainer

The Sweetspot Ski Trainer attaches to ski boots and with interchangable blocks under mid-foot challenges brain/ski boot coordination and balance.

Ankle Flex Test

For every skiing level, from beginner to expert, balance is the key to success and balance on skis comes from a good stance with ankles flexed. Here's how to do an ankle flex test to check your balance.

Controlling Speed on Steep Terrain

When advancing skiers take on Black Diamond terrain they should have a strong knowledge of how to keep their speed under control as the terrain gets steeper. There is hardly anything more scary, or more dangerous, than being out of control and then having to make desperate skidding attempts to stop.

Edge Your Skis With Ankles Not Hips

If you roll your ankles to get those shaped skis up on edge and then let the design and engineering in the shaped ski set you in the turn, it is easier to keep your hips and center of gravity closer to being over your skis.

Exaggeration Drills

These days, shaped skis are pretty much all you see on the ski racks and for good reason. The shaped ski have made initiating a turn on the snow so much easier than the old days on straight skis. However, the problem is proficiency on straight skis doesn't automatically transition to proficiency on shaped skis.

Glade Skiing Tips

In recent years ski resorts have responded to the call of patrons to open more of the wooded area within their boundaries. Referred to as glades on most area trail maps, and invariably marked expert or Black Diamond terrain, many areas are adding more and more acres each year to this category.

Keep Your Head Up and Eyes Level

Teaching kids to keep their head up and eyes level is a big, and easy step to learning balance control while turning.

How to Find a Lost Ski In Powder Snow

Losing a ski in powder snow is not uncommon, but there way to be sure it doesn't happen to you. Here's how to prevent losing your ski, plus the best sequential steps to take if you ever do lose a ski in powder snow.

How to Get up in Soft or Deep Snow

After falling in deep or soft snow and making sure you have nothing more than your pride hurt arrange your skis across the fall line. Take in mind that in the soft snow it may not be necessary to be totally perpendicular to the fall line since the soft and deeper snow will naturally hold your skis without a lot of edging.

How To Get Up After A Fall Without Taking Off Your Skis

Every skier, from beginner to expert, falls. It's nothing to be ashamed of but here's a quick and easy way to safely get back up without taking off your skis.

How to Ski on a Crowded Trail

When ski resorts fill up, skiing on a crowded trail can be difficult and sometimes even dangerous! Especially when the trail gets narrow, it can be hard work to navigate through other skiers. Colliding with another skier can cause injury (and it hurts!), so skiing safely on crowded trails is necessary for everyone's safety.

How ToSki Safely on Icy and Hard Packed Snow

Every skier will come across hard packed snow and even hard ice. It's important to know how to ski safely and confidently through these difficult conditions.

Intermediate Drill For Steering Skis

You don't hear a lot about what to do with your heels while skiing and as Chalky White says it's best to not to anything but keep your heels still. Here is a good exercise for intermediate skiers to learn to steer with the toes.

Keep Your Toes Up

Remembering to keep your toes up using the $100 Dollar Bill trick will help every skier, from beginner to expert, to keep the ankles flexed at all times and in differing terrain.

Learn Athletic Stance For Skiing

The ROCK that is your athletic stance is, without doubt, the one most important skiing skill you will ever develop.

Learn to Snow Plow

The traditional learning stance for beginning skiers is called the snow plow position. Here's a step-by-step guide to snow plowing.

Learning Powder Skiing

My main intent in going to Kirkwood Mountain Resort, legendary for lots of powder snowstorms rolling through, was to learn what it would take to help an eastern skier, not used to deep powder, to really ski some deep powder with control and confidence.

Sideslip Out of a Difficult Spot

In a difficult spot it is just fine to sideslip your way down and/or around any obstacles. Here's how to do it right.

Sideslip Out of a Difficult Spot

When you're skiing in a difficult spot it is just fine to sideslip your way down and/or around any obstacles. Here's how to do it right.

Spring Skiing Tips

During spring skiing, every skier needs to take a few extra steps to have a pleasant, safe ski trip. You need to consider the stronger sunshine, changing snow conditions, and warmer temperatures. Here are a few tips to make sure that your spring skiing is enjoyable and safe!

Tips for Mogul Skiing

When you are just starting to try to ski well in moguls, start on small bumps in not too steep terrain. Moguls on Black Diamond trails can be both intimidating and dangerous to beginning mogul skiers.

Tips for Safe Tree Skiing

Tree skiing most commonly refers to skiing off the groomed slopes, in and among trees of various sizes, shapes and types. It is exhilarating and easily accessible at any ski area in North America.

The Slow Ski Race

The ability to control speed, at will, is key to the safety and the Slow Ski Race helps kids to learn to control speed for safe skiing.

Skiing Tips - Best Skiing Tips

Share your best tips for skiers and review tips from About.com readers including the best way to get started, where to ski, choosing gear, skiing tips and tricks, and more ski tips.

How Fast do Skiers Go?

One of the most common questions asked about downhill skiing is how fast skiers go. Here is a summary of the average speed of recreational skiers, Olympic skiers, ski racers, cross country skiers, and speed skiers, including speed skiing world records.

How Much Do Ski Instructors Make?

Information on ski instructor salary and wages.