Skiing advice and tips on skiing with children, women's skiing and skiing fashion from Guest Author Katie Doyle.

Apres-Ski Attire

For some skiers, the apres-ski scene is just as important as their time on the slopes! Apres-ski attire is important to the apres-ski experience, and the right clothes can make - or break - your night. Here's more information on apres-attire, including apres-ski clothing and apres-ski boots.

Best Ski Towns

At first guess, you might think the recipe for a successful ski vacation is rather simple: great skiing, and a good place to sleep at night. However, there are other factors that come into play, too. Some ski resorts are nestled in the belly of rural wilderness; others are situated in spirited towns that have a life of their own. Read on for...

Best Ski Resort Weddings

If you've always dreamed of a Winter Wonderland wedding, check out which ski resorts make the best venue for your ceremony.

How to Become a Ski Instructor

Are you interested in becoming a ski instructor? If you're passionate about skiing, and want to share your knowledge with other people, it might just be the job for you. Here's more on how to become a ski instructor.

Getting Kids Ready for Skiing

While there's no doubt that taking your kids skiing can be an exhausting experience, that doesn't mean that it can't be fun. As long as you're prepared for the experience, a day on the slopes can be a fun and fulfilling experience for both parents and children. Here are some tips for getting ready to take your kids skiing.

How to Choose a Ski Goggle Lens Color

From blue, green, pink, yellow, gold, black, and silver, there are a multitude of ski goggle lens colors on the market. While some ski goggle lenses work best in flat light, others are best for sunny days. If you aren't sure where to start, here's a ski goggle lens color guide, including what ski goggles to buy, what ski goggles for low light...

Most Beautiful Skiing Destinations

A review of the world's most beautiful skiing destinations, from ski resorts to the United States all the way to New Zealand.

Montreal Ski Resorts

If you're looking to go on a ski vacation that fuses on-mountain fun and off-the-slopes entertainment, considering planning a trip to Montreal, Canada. The unique city offers plenty of urban attractions, and there are several ski resorts to the north of it with great skiing, too. Read on for more information about Montreal Ski Resorts.

Mountain Threads Ski Clothing Rental

Everyone knows that ski clothes are expensive, but the prospect of finding something to wear on the slopes shouldn't have to prevent skiers from making it to the mountain. Fortunately, Mountain Threads has a solution: the Colorado-based ski clothing service offers ski clothing rentals for men, women, and kids at all Colorado ski resorts.

Neff Land, Park City Mountain Resort's New Terrain Park

A decade ago, Shaun Neff, the CEO of Neff Headwear, first started his hat company's homegrown marketing campaign at Park City Mountain Resort. Now, the ski area is home to Neff Land, a new terrain park reflective of the brand's fun, freestyle vibe.

Safely Ski from A to Z Book Review

A review of Mary Palmer's children's book, Safely Ski from A to Z, which reviews key safety issues and important points about techniques in a fun and engaging format.

Ski Boot Gloves

Do ski boot gloves work? If you've seen some skiers with funky black coverings on their boots, you may have wondered what they are, and if they're effective. Ski boot gloves, also called "bootgloves," are insulating neoprene coverings that slip over the toe and front buckles of your ski boots, wrapping around the ankle to stay secure. Here's...

Ski Resort Cuisine: Farm-to-Table Dining

Many ski resort restaurants across the nation have started to take advantage of the natural resources just outside their doorsteps, serving organic, farm-to-table food and drinks. The "locavore" movement, as a California woman christened it on World Environment Day in 2005, fits well in the scheme of ski resort dining, as mountain-fresh...

Tips for Taking Kids Skiing

Sometimes, making it the mountain with kids can be just as exhausting as the actual ski day. Once you've put in the hard work of preparing for a day on the slopes with children, though, it's important to make the most of your ski day. Here's more on how to have a safe, successful, and fun skiing experience with your children.

Top 10 2013 Cool Ski Graphics

Although most people buy skis for function, not fashion, cool ski graphics never hurt anyone, especially given the recent trend towards the wild style embodied by the free ski culture. After a comprehensive review of all the 2013 skis on the market, the design of these men's, women's and junior skis beat out the rest.

Top 5 Ski Resorts for Singles

Many ski resorts that offer top-notch terrain also offer great nightlife. Ski towns with bustling bars and bouncing nightclubs are also a hotbed for visitors, and as a result, resorts known for their apres-ski activities have also become known as great vacation spots for singles.

Top 5 Winter Olympics Cities

It's often thought that the Winter Olympics graces its host city with a long-lasting legacy, drawing visitors for years after the Olympians say their farewells and return home. Here are a selection of the top Winter Olympics host cities to visit for a ski vacation.

What Ski Goggle Lens Color Should I Buy?

Ski goggle lenses are available in every color of the rainbow, but chances are you'd rather purchase one pair of ski goggles rather than a multitude. If you're looking for a universal pair of goggles, here's more on how to buy ski goggles, including the best lens color for all conditions.

What to Wear Skiing

Chances are that if you walk into any ski shop, you'll be affronted with an array of ski apparel options. Fortunately, ski clothing doesn't have to be complicated. If you aren't sure what to wear skiing, it's best to start with the basics and then move on to the accessories. Here is a guideline for what to wear to skiing, which you can use as a...

Winter Skin Care Products Review

When you're out on the slopes, the harsh elements are bound to take a toll on your skin. With the sun reflecting on the snow, the wind whipping around your face, and the cold, dry mountain air, you may find yourself leaving the resort with both sunburn and windburn, both of which can make your next day skiing extremely uncomfortable. Read on for...

Women's Ski Clinics

Many ski resorts offer women's only ski clinics that are targeted to female skiers looking to improve their technique. Women's ski camps foster a strong sense of camaraderie while allowing female skiers to build upon their skiing skills and their confidence in a comfortable environment. Here's more information on women's ski clinics.

Guest Author Katie Doyle

Guest Author Katie Doyle, in addition to focusing on skiing with children, writes about women's skiing and believes that black diamonds are truly a girl's best friend. As a certified ski instructor, she also focuses on children's skiing tips, and is interested in ski fashion, as well.

Top 20 Skiing Faux-Pas

Lift tickets are expensive, and ski days are highly valuable - don't ruin someone else's day by being a disrespectful skier, or ruin your own by getting your ticket pulled. Here are the top 20 skiing faux-pas to avoid while on the slopes.

Yoga for Skiers

Mountain pose is a great way to begin a yoga practice that also supports your skiing ability.