When the calendar says it's officially spring, there is still snow in the mountains. Sometimes for much longer than you think. Mammoth Mountain, for example, typically stays open until Memorial Day, and occasionally later.

Spring Skiing Tips

 During spring skiing, every skier needs to take a few extra steps to have a pleasant, safe ski trip. You need to consider the stronger sunshine, changing snow conditions, and warmer temperatures.

How to Dress for Spring Skiing

 Layering is the key word for spring skiing attire. Forget the down jacket and heavy insulated snow pants, you should travel light to really enjoy a full day on spring snow.

Finding Snow for Spring Skiing

 Before we head to the slopes for spring skiing, we have to find the snow and a quick check at Snocountry.com will give you what I think is the most accurate information on what resorts are open. Be sure to check because this time of year, resorts start to cut back on hours.

Backcountry Spring Skiing

 In an effort to get in as many turns as possible as we slide further into spring, it's time to look on the other side of the ski slope. Look in the woods, where the trees are really your friends this time of year spreading their leafless arms to keep the sun off the snow.

Ski / Snow Reports

 Get the latest information on ski resorts open for spring skiing and conditions.

Family Spring Skiing Vacations

 The major difference between peak season holiday vacations and spring skiing vacations is, of course, price. You are going to find bargains galore and at resorts that you may have only dreamed of being able to afford.

Ski Resort Activities

 Most ski resorts have a variety of spring activities, skiing and non-skiing related, on the schedule. These special events help the ski resorts get some extra mileage out of the season, and provide entertainment for both skiers and non-skiers alike.

Spring Skiing Discounts

 If you want to get the most out of the ski season, check out spring skiing deals and discounts at your favorite resort or vacation spot. The ski areas want to get as much mileage as they can out of the season and my mail (and email) box is getting cluttered with offers for 2 for 1 ski passes, vacation packages, buy early and save season passes, and a variety of other discounted skiing options.

Mark Elling on Spring Skiing

 Even though it marks the end of the ski season, spring skiing can be an enjoyable time for all skiers. With less of a crowd and more sunshine, spring is a great time to be on the mountain. Here are spring skiing tips by Mark Elling, skiing expert and author of The All-Mountain Skier: The Way to Expert Skiing.

Men's Spring Ski Jackets

 It is important to be comfortable and cool during spring skiing, but you still need ski clothes that will allow optimal movement. A quality jacket that will keep you comfortable is essential in your skiing wardrobe. Here is a list of the best men's ski jackets for warmer spring temperatures.

Women's Spring Ski Jackets

 In spring conditions, it is important to be comfortable and cool. Just because it may be warmer outside, you still will need a jacket that will protect you from the elements. A quality spring ski jacket is an essential in your skiing wardrobe. Here is a list of the best women's spring ski jackets.