Information on the history of skiing, including when skiing started, the first types of skis, Olympic skiing history, skiing facts, and more about the history of snow skiing.

Skiing History

Curious about the history of skiing? This guide will provide a history of cross country and downhill skiing, as well as a brief history of other disciplines that have grown from alpine and nordic skiing.

History of Skiing

The history of skiing traces all the way back to ancient times, with the oldest set of skis dating back to as early as 6000 B.C. Skiing has come along way since then, with its origins in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Austria, the United States, and ever America. Here's a look at some of the most important dates in the history of skiing.

History of Skiing Timeline: A Visual Guide

The history of skiing traces all the way back to ancient times, with the oldest set of skis dating back to as early as 6000 B.C. Skiing has come along way since then, with its origins in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Austria, the United States, and ever America. Read on for a visual guide to the history of skiing.

History of Olympic Skiing

Highlights of Olympic alpine and nordic skiing events.

History of the Olympic Torch

The history of the Olympic Torch including symbolism, the lighting of the torch, transport and design.

Legends of Alpine Ski Racing

There are quite a few great men and women alpine ski racers that need to be recognized for their accomplishments in he world of alpine ski racing.

Lost Ski Areas

Information on lost ski areas in the United States.

When Did Skiing Become an Olympic Sport?

Information on when skiing became an Olympic sport and the skiing competition that is included in the Winter Olympic Games.

Skiing Styles and Disciplines

Skiing has evolved into many different disciplines. From downhill skiing to freestyle, here is a review of the different types of skiing styles.

The Story of Modern Skiing

In The Story of Modern Skiing John Fry weaves a colorful history of the rise in skiing popularity from the individual mom-and pop post-WWII ski areas to the mega resort conglamorates of today - and all the environmental consequences along the way.

Types of Avalanches

There are three different types of avalanches, loose snow, dry slab, and wet slab, with varying degrees of danger.

Types of Snow

In ski weather reports, often many types of snow will be mentioned. From packed powder to corn, snow types can get very confusing. However, knowing the types of snow is important, because you know exactly what you'll be skiing on.

How Long is a Typical Ski Season?

The length of a ski season varies, but is generally around 5 - 6 months. Ski season length depends on location, altitude, and other factors, such as snowmaking.

List a Lost Ski Area

Do you know of a lost ski area that's not on the list? Please add it.