With all the money Vermont Ski Resorts are spending on improvements for the 2011 ski season, it's obvious each ski area is listening to its guests and is moving to create the best possible experience for skiers and the entire family.

Here are some of the major improvements we can look forward to for the 2010-11 season while skiing Vermont.

Bromley Mountain 

 Bromley bought about $675,000 worth of goods, systems and equipment to enhance the experience of skiers and riders including a Prinoth Bison winch-cat for grooming the steepest terrain.

An AEBI mountain mower will run throughout the off-season for improved snowmaking coverage and better trail and slope maintenance.

300 new sets of Adult Rental Equipment from HEAD and new industry-specific ticketing software from Siriusware, streamlining ticketing and ski school purchases as well as ecommerce.

 More: Bromley Mountain

Burke Mountain

 NEK Sampler: This season, Burke Mountain is introducing two new value cards. The Kingdom Sampler and the Ski Free Card are designed to introduce guests to the Northeast Kingdom (NEK) of Vermont and save money on lift tickets. The Ski Free Card offers discounted lift tickets all season and every 5th visit is free.

Nordic Operations: Burke Mountain cross-country terrain is managed by Kingdom Trails and this season they will be making significant improvements to the skating trail network.

Jay Peak Resort 

 Jay Peak Resort will have $13 million in improvements. Topping the list are increases in snowmaking coverage, an enclosed beginner lift, a new Nordic center, an indoor ice arena, a parking garage, a state-of-the-art ticketing system, and a new groomer. The enhancements are part of the resort's ongoing $120 million revitalization effort.

New in lodging are 57 luxury suites in the Tram Haus lodge and three deluxe condominium suites at the Golf Clubhouse.

New in recreational activities:The Ice Haus arena features an NHL-sized rink with room for 700 spectators, and offers skating lessons, hockey games and curling tournaments.

 More: Jay Peak Resort

Killington Resort 

 Snowmaking upgrades at Killington top the list of summer projects, including trunk line replacements, energy efficiency upgrades, pump re-builds and a new cooling system at the South Ridge Pump House.

In addition to building up its arsenal of Lower Energy snow guns, including two new fan guns that will be positioned near the bottom of the Superstar and Snowshed trails, Killington will continue to partner with Efficiency Vermont to improve the overall efficiency of its snowmaking system.

Crews have completed trail re-grading on the upper Skyewalker/Bittersweet area to improve skier/rider flow and reduce congestion at the intersection. Next up will be re-grading the top portion of Bittersweet where it intersects Great Eastern.

Killington also replaced seat cushions on a number of chairlifts and continued to refinish and re-paint several lifts as well.

 More: Killington Resort*

Mad River Glen 

 Mad River's goal is to maintain and preserve the experience rather than overhaul or upgrade it. The ability of Mad River Glen to consistently reinvest in the mountain's infrastructure is a testament to the success of the Cooperative.

 More: Mad River Glen*

Magic Mountain 

 The Magic Partnership, LLC: In an effort to save Magic Mountain and raise capital to invest in the infrastructure the ski area has begun selling shares in the area.

More Efficient Snowmaking: Magic Mountain continues to improve the snowmaking operations with increased efficiency through renovated air and water snowmaking lines and a streamlined process to making snow.

The Magic Card offers discounts for skiers and riders all season long for only $39.00. The Magic card gives holders $25.00 midweek lift tickets and $10 off weekends and holidays all season long. Magic 3-Pack: In its second season, the Magic -Pack, offers a tremendous savings on day tickets throughout the season. For only $125.00 Magic skiers and riders can purchase 3 lift tickets valid anytime.

 More: Magic Mountain

Middlebury College Snow Bowl 

 The Snow Bowl has made two improvements yielding increased terrain: the popular Cameron Trail has been widened significantly for '10-'11 and a glade has been added between the Lang and Cameron trails.

 More: Middlebury College Snow Bowl

Mount Snow Resort 

 Mount Snow, with the most Fan Guns in North America, continues its pursuit of the perfect snow conditions with off-season improvements to its snowmaking infrastructure, the clear priority is making sure its guests have the best snow conditions.

At Mount Snow there is a calendar full of events not to be missed. College weeks in January offer eager students one last chance to blow off some steam before returning to the books for the spring semester. Each week features a four night long party schedule with everything from tubing to live bands.

 More: Mount Snow

Okemo Mountain Resort 

 The Okemo Mountain Coaster, a four-season, family attraction will offer an exhilarating ride through alpine forests at Okemo's Jackson Gore.

Okemo continues its commitment to superlative grooming this winter with the addition of a third Prinoth BR500 grooming machine. The newest addition to Okemo's grooming fleet helps reinforce the resort's reputation for top-quality surface conditions.

The Snow Star Poma, located in the Galaxy Bowl Learning Area at Okemo's Clock Tower Base Area, is replaced with a 180-foot, magic-carpet-style surface lift.

 More: Okemo Mountain Resort

Smugglers' Notch Resort 

 Winter guests at Smugglers' Notch Resort will enjoy the resort's exciting new canopy tour, located in a scenic valley near the resort village. Participants on the 2.5-3-hour tour, the first of its kind in Vermont, will ride more than 4,000 feet of zip line cable, cross suspension bridges, and rappel from trees.

The year-round canopy tour joins Smugglers' extensive seasonal outdoor experiences that in the winter include skiing and snowboarding on three mountains, snowshoeing, and cross-country skiing.

 More: Smugglers' Notch Resort

Stowe Mountain Resort 

 Spruce Peak Performing Arts Center opens its doors to the public in December 2010. The performing arts center is envisioned as a venue for a wide spectrum of events; theater, music, dance, film, comedy, lectures and multimedia presentations.

The 420-seat multipurpose hall, with minimal separation between audience and stage, provides flexibility that includes the extension of seating onto the stage, the use of galleries for performers, plus reception and banquet facilities. 

 More: Stowe Mountain Resort*

2002 Olympic gold medalist Ross Powers returns to his roots at Stratton Mountain School as the new head of Snowboarding Programs.

Stratton will upgrade two of its front line Snow Cats with new Prinoth BR350's, with significant technology and efficiency upgrades in snowmaking by adding new snow guns.

Sugarbush Resort 

 Sugarbush is currently undergoing its largest revitalization effort since opening the first phase of the Lincoln Peak Village in December 2006. The Warren-based resort is investing close to $10 million in the second phase of the village, as well as upgrades to its snowmaking infrastructure.

Phase 2 of the Lincoln Peak revitalization project consists of a new entrance plaza as well as two new lodges.

Sugarbush began replacing key sections of its snowmaking infrastructure in early July. Over two miles of primary-supply snowmaking pipe will be replaced at both Lincoln Peak and Mt. Ellen. The original pipe was installed in 1997. Work is expected to be complete in late September.

 More: Sugarbush Resort

Trapp Family Lodge 

 NCAA Ski Championships will be held March 9 - 12, 2011; The University of Vermont and Trapp Family Lodge will be hosting the collegiate skiers from all over the United States. The new race course finds its way into the stadium five times in the 7.5 kilometer distance and has just been certified for homologation by the International Ski Federation (FIS).

