Americans Elizabeth Price and Sam Mikulak won the 2014 American Cup women's and men's titles, respectively, on Mar. 1 in Greensboro, N.C.

Price, a 2012 Olympic alternate, won easily, by nearly 2.5 points over her American teammate, Brenna Dowell. Price also earned the highest score on three out of the four events. She took the early lead with her awesome Amanar vault, scoring a 15.700 -- the highest women's score of the day. Price's bar routine was the highlight of the women's meet, with reverse hecht and toe-on hecht release moves and a nearly-stuck full-twisting double layout dismount. (Watch it here.)

Dowell also did an Amanar vault, and had a unique bar routine that included a toe-on reverse hecht 1/2 to immediate straddle-back half (Ezhova), with the same dismount as Price.

Victoria Moors of Canada competed her incredibly hard Moors (double-twisting double layout) on floor, and combined it with expressive dance as well. Though she ended with only a double tuck, her set has the potential to be one of the best routines in the world. (Watch it here.)

Mikulak, a 2012 Olympian, bested Japan's Shogo Nonomura, but it came down to high bar. When Nonomura fell on his routine, Mikulak earned the title by nearly 1.0. Mikulak also was best on floor, where he earned a 15.666 for his clean and high combination tumbling and stuck triple full dismount. (Watch it here.)

Mikulak's Olympic teammate, and the 2012 US national champ, John Orozco, was fifth after low scores on vault and parallel bars (ironically, the event he earned the bronze on at the 2013 worlds). Germany's Fabian Hambuechen, the 2007 world champion on high bar and 2013 world silver medalist on the event, had the most exciting set of the day there, with two Kovacs release moves and a layout reverse hecht. (Watch it.)

Noticeably absent from the women's roster were the top five all-around gymnasts from last year's worlds, including the 1-2 American duo of gold medalist Simone Biles and silver medalist Kyla Ross, who both withdrew due to injury. Also missing on the men's side were the top two all-arounders from worlds, Japan's superstar Kohei Uchimura and countryman Ryohei Kato.

The American Cup was won last year by Americans Katelyn Ohashi and Jake Dalton, and past champions have included Nadia Comaneci, Nastia Liukin, Shawn Johnson, Paul Hamm, and Mary Lou Retton, among others.

Watch all the routines from the 2014 American Cup.

More on the American Cup and its past champions.