Most hikers spend a fair bit of time at remote trailheads (plus the time you spend driving to and from). Nobody's expecting you to do a complete transmission overhaul of your car while you're out there -- but knowing a few basic maintenance and troubleshooting skills can keep you from getting stranded when car trouble rears its head.

Leave your headlights on or park your car for too long in frigid weather, or just have a little bad luck, and you'll be facing a dead battery when you get back. I like to keep a portable battery pack in my trunk for solo jump starts, but you can do the same thing with jumper cables (and the help of another hiker's car). No jumper cables? If you have a manual transmission, there's always the option of push or bump starting it.

Run over the wrong sharp rock, and you'll be greeted by a completely flat tire when you get back from your hike. Knowing how to swap it out for a spare is the fastest way to get back on the road again. (You did check to make sure your spare had plenty of air before you left town -- right?) If you have the right materials, you can also plug or patch the damaged tire right there on the spot, assuming you have an air compressor to fill it back up (or it's not too flat to drive on). And finally, there's always the good old can of Fix-a-Flat (if you brought it along, and as long as your tire isn't too damaged for the sealant to do its job). This stuff can work miracles, but be warned that it will void the warranty on some tires. The great thing about Fix-a-Flat is that the can inflates your tire just enough for you to drive out -- but it's not meant to be a permanent repair, and some tire shops will charge you extra to repair a tire that's been Fix-a-Flatted. (They say it takes extra time to clean the sealant out of the tire.)

Few things kill your engine faster than allowing it to overheat -- so before you head out for that big trip, Few things kill your engine faster than allowing it to overheat -- so before you head out for that big trip, check your engine's coolant and top it off if necessary. If you're really traveling in remote places, bring extra coolant for a quick on-the-road fix.

Okay, there's something else that will kill your car lickety-split -- letting it run with too little oil in it. Knowing how to Okay, there's something else that will kill your car lickety-split -- letting it run with too little oil in it. Knowing how to check your oil -- and add more if necessary -- can save your engine.

Fuses control everything electronic in your car -- and hey, just about everything in a modern car is electronic! A blown fuse means you lose the use of whatever circuit it governed -- anything from your electric windows to your headlights or starter. Fortunately, replacement fuses are usually cheap and small enough to store in your glove compartment -- and they're easy to replace, too. (Here's how to replace a blown auto fuse.)

Just as you should always carry the ten essentials when you hike, having the right repair supplies ready to go in your car can really save you a lot of grief. Here's what I like to carry with me -- I just keep it all in a plastic tub in the back of the car along with the usual safety gear like a hi-viz vest and emergency flares or triangle: - Extra motor oil of the correct grade - Extra coolant - Replacement fuses and fuse tool - Fix-a-Flat or tire patches and air compressor - Jumper cables or portable battery for jump-starting without another car.