When the dust settles on Atletico Madrid's amazing La Liga triumph, it will be recognized as one of the greatest of the last 50 years.

This is a club who, in winning their first Liga title since 1996, broke Spanish soccer's traditional hegemony, at a time they had no right to do so. Coach Diego Simeone does not have a Lionel Messi at his disposal, nor the world's most expensive player Cristiano Ronaldo, nor last summer's most expensive purchase Gareth bale.

This is a club who regularly has to sell their best striker (Fernando Torres, Sergio Aguero, Radamel Falcao...), and will do again this summer when Diego Costa leaves, probably for Chelsea. They do not have the limitless funds of Spanish soccer's two superpowers, and yet have finished above the combined 54 times winners through a mixture of superb management, defensive solidarity, midfield cunning, and a bulldog of a striker.

Even Simeone admitted that Atletico will probably not find themselves in this position again, and urged them to take advantage of rare lapses from the traditional top dogs. And take advantage they did.

It was fitting that in what was one of Spanish soccer's most dramatic titles races, it should come down to a last day shoot-out between Barca and Atletico at Camp Nou. Barca, trailing by three points, needed a victory to finish above Atletico on the head-to-head rule (the two drew 0-0 at the Vicente Calderon earlier this season), while the Madrid side only needed a point.

After Alexis Sanchez, one of Barca's better performers in an indifferent season for the Catalan club, put them ahead with a wonderful strike from an acute angle, Diego Godin headed in a second-half equalizer, and Atletico held firm to trigger jubilant scenes at the final whistle.

It is difficult to overstate the magnitude of this achievement. The groundswell of opinion was that a long season would eventually catch up with an over-stretched squad, that mistakes would creep in, and that the pressure would get too much for a team used to playing second fiddle to the top two.

In some says it did, in that 2-0 defeat at Levante two weeks ago and the 1-1 draw with Malaga last weekend. But Barca and Real were in such disarray themselves, that they were unable to take advantage.

How can Atletico possibly better this? By beating their fierce rivals Real Madrid in the Champions League final next Saturday.

That Atletico have managed to balance a duel assault on La Liga and the Champions League is a testimony to Simeone and every one of his soldiers who will embark on one last mission in Lisbon next week.