Menstruation isn't as taboo a discussion topic as it used to be, but city life doesn't always prepare us for handling this natural function out-of-doors. Once you wrap your mind around it, the process is simple and common sense. Here are some of the most common questions I've encountered about menstruation and hiking; if you have a question that's not on the list, drop me a line and I'll do my best to answer.

Yes. Keep reading for more information about what to pack and how to handle used menstrual items.

This paper, an analysis of bear attack statistics over multiple decades, says no. To be more exact:

Pack them out, just as you would do with any waste produced by personal hygiene tasks. (You do pack out your toilet paper, right?) Bring a few extra zip-close bags along for stowing your used menstrual gear, and a dark-colored stuff sack to stow it all if you're concerned about folks seeing what's in the bags.

if you're backpacking in bear country, I would treat said used menstrual gear just as you'd treat any other "scented" material, including deodorant and toothpaste: Either stow it in a bear canister or bear bag it (you can hang it in a separate bag from the food, if you like).

Consider trying a Diva Cup, Moon Cup, Keeper, or any of the other menstrual cup varieties out there. These collect menstrual blood instead of absorbing it, and you can dispose of the blood the same way you'd dispose of feces on the trail. Better yet, reusable menstrual cups are earth-friendly and can save you a good chunk of money.

Every woman is different, and extended outdoor outings can definitely affect your menstrual cycle. And yes, you really can sync up with the other ladies in your crew! So if you're not 100 percent sure your cycle will stay away while you're out, I'd recommend packing something just in case.

You can find a packable equivalent of just about any comfort items you'd use at home, except maaaybe a hot water bottle. If heat does the trick for you, you can buy adhesive chemical heat pads that are reasonably small and light. (ThermaCare is the first brand that comes to mind.) If your periods tend to be difficult and you know you'll need some sort of a pain reliever, pack it! The degree of comfort it'll provide is worth giving up a tiny bit of space or weight.

You might plan to carry a little extra water for washing up, bidet-style. If you like to use pre-moistened wipes instead, pack the unscented version. If you're worried about keeping your underwear clean, opt for quick-dry, breathable undies made of synthetic materials, and pack an extra pair. That way you switch into a clean pair while you rinse the other pair out and let them dry.