Brendan Rodgers was appointed after an impressive stint at Swansea

Liverpool's illustrious history means supporter expectation weighs heavily on the shoulders of players and managers alike.

Winners of 18 league titles and five European Cups, the Reds have struggled to revive the glory of the 1970s and 80s under a series of managers since the Premier League's inception in 1992.

The club have yet to win a Premier League title, although the dramatic 2005 Champions League triumph under former manager Rafael Benitez represented a brief return to former glories.

Since then, however, the Reds have won just one FA Cup despite boasting the talents of Steven Gerrard, Jamie Carragher and Pepe Reina.

Liverpool won their first title in 1901 after gaining promotion to the First Division in 1894.

The appointment of Bill Shankly in 1959 signaled the start of a golden era in the club's history.

One of the most successful British managers ever, Shankly led the club to promotion in 1962 and they have remained in the top flight ever since.

Shankly won three league titles, two FA Cups and a UEFA Cup, before retiring in 1974 and being replaced by his assistant Bob Paisley.

Paisley's nine-year reign saw Liverpool win an astonishing 21 trophies, including three European Cups, six league titles and a UEFA Cup. Few would have expected that when Shankly retired, his record would be bettered by Paisley.

Liverpool's history is also shrouded in sadness as the club was at the heart of two notorious stadium disasters.

The first came before the 1985 European Cup final against Juventus at the Heysel Stadium in Brussels, Belgium. Thirty-nine people were killed, including 32 Juventus fans who were attacked by Liverpool supporters. A masonry wall failed and then collapsed under the pressure of escaping fans, with 600 people also injured.

Liverpool were banned from European competition for six years, with the other English clubs excluded for five.

Four years later when Liverpool were playing Nottingham Forest in an FA Cup semi-final at Hillsborough in Sheffield, 96 Liverpool fans died due to overcrowding.