Michel Platini's legendary free kicks secured him titles and awards worldwide. The French soccer sensation even made his way into the English Football Hall of Fame as the first non-English player to be titled "All-Time Great European Footballer". Considered to be one of the greatest players in French history, the midfielder held the top scorer record for France's national team for almost three decades. Platini played his last games as a professional for Juventus, and during his time in Italy he was pronounced World Soccer Player of the Year twice. His nickname, "Le Roi" (The King), needs little explanation.

Date and Place of Birth: June 21, 1955 in Joeuf, France

After several attempts to join the French soccer club Metz, 18-year-old Platini started playing for his father's club Nancy. Shortly after being accepted onto the reserve side of the team, Platini impressed the coaches and was taken onto the first team and given his league debut against Nimes in 1972. After the 1976 Montreal Olympics Platini signed his first official contract with Nancy and continued to excel as a playmaker and a top-scorer for the club for another two years. By 1979 the midfielder had been awarded French Football Player of the Year twice, and during the summer of 1979 Inter Milan, Paris Saint-Germain and Saint-Etienne were eager to get their hands on the young talent.

Despite numerous goals and winning the French league in 1981 Platini's three years for Saint-Etienne were not as magical as the club had planned on. The team lost two French Cup finals in a row and Platini moved over to Juventus 145 matches and 82 goals later.

Platini achieved the greatest success of his career as a midfielder for the Turin-based club. However, his introduction to Italian soccer was anything but legendary. An injury and the pressure from the demanding Italian press pulled focus away from Platini's performance on the pitch, and he was struggling to get playing time. In the second half of the 1982 season Platini got a chance to show off his elegant passes and creative playmaking and Juventus won the Italian Cup. In the following years Platini and his men won several cups, including the Italian Championship, The European Cup Winners' Cup and the European Super Cup in 1984 and the European Cup and the Intercontinental Cup in 1985. World Soccer magazine awarded the powerful Frenchman with the Player of the Year award both in 1984 and 1985, and Platini's career was at its absolute peak. In 1985 Juventus and Liverpool met at the Heysel Stadium in Brussels, fighting for the European Cup title. A match that was meant to be the biggest of Platini's career ended up becoming one of the biggest disasters in soccer history. Thirty-nine Juventus fans were crushed by a concrete wall an hour before kick-off, and despite this fatal tragedy the match was played as scheduled. Platini scored the only goal of the match from the penalty spot, and made Juventus European Cup champions. Later Platini was criticized for celebrating his win and lack of respect for the deaths at Heysel Stadium. After the 1986 World Cup in Mexico, Platini played his last season for Juventus before retiring from soccer the summer of 1987, 32 years of age.

Platini's debut on an international pitch was in Romania in 1975, where he was a part of the French Olympic team. His first international goal was scored in Paris against Czechoslovakia the year after. In 1976 Platini and the French national soccer team made their way to the quarter-finals of the Summer Olympics held in Montreal, and two years later qualified for the 1978 World Cup in Argentina, a cup France had not been a part of since 1966. Captain and top-scorer Platini led his men to success in the European Championship in 1984, where he, against Belgium, scored a hat-trick. Platini also scored the final goal against Portugal that sent his team to the finals. Platini played his last match for France in 1987, only two months before he retired as a professional soccer player. Under a year later he re-appeared on the soccer pitch and played an exhibition game for Kuwait against the Soviet Union, where Kuwait lost 2-0. Platini went on to coach the France national team and was named Manager of the Year in 1992 after France had remained unbeaten for 19 matches in a row. In July 2007 Platini ran for UEFA presidency and has since then had the prestigious role of leading European soccer's governing body. Being king both on and off the pitch, Platini will never be a forgotten name in soccer history. Long live "Le Roi".