Best performed miracles on the pitch from a young age and despite his early retirement he is still, to this day, one of the biggest soccer names in the world. Being voted the Greatest British Sportsman of All Time serves as a solid confirmation of his talent.

The lethal combination of George Best and a soccer ball provided big wins for clubs worldwide in the 60s and 70s, and the goals and passes signed by the Northern Ireland-born winger went down in soccer history.

Date and Place of Birth: May 22, 1946 in Belfast

At 15, Best left his hometown Belfast and signed with Manchester United, after being spotted by a scout. However, shortly after his move to England the young talent struggled with homesickness and moved back to Northern Ireland. Two years later, after returning to Manchester United and playing as an amateur, he had his First Division debut at Old Trafford against West Bromwich Albion. His first goal for the club was scored less than three months after.

During the 1963/64 season Best made 26 appearances, scoring six goals, and Manchester United finished second, only four points away from Liverpool. The year after, Best and his team won the league title, where the fierce winger scored 14 goals.

In 1966 Best caused headlines worldwide when he scored two goals against Benfica in the European Cup. The 19-year-old quickly became a favorite among the media, and nicknames like "The Fifth Beatle" and "The Belfast Boy" occurred within the public. Three years later Best was awarded European Player of the Year at the young age of 22.

However, not everyone grew fond of the British soccer talent, and during United's match against Argentinian side Estudiantes de La Plata, Best was kicked and spat on by rival player Jose Hugo Medina. One year later, in 1970, Best was fined by the Football Association for his three yellow cards for misconduct. Later that year he was also suspended two weeks from United.

Best played his last game for United in 1974 against Queens Park Rangers, where United lost 3-0. The following season United dropped down to the Second Division. Best delivered 179 goals in 470 matches during his time at United and though his scandalous private life trashed a big part of his reputation, he remained a legend on the soccer pitch.

In 1975 Best joined the Cork Celtic team, but he only played three league games for the Irish-based club. Without scoring a single goal Best was dropped from the team and left less than two months after his arrival.