Franz Beckenbauer is regarded as the best sweeper to have played the game

Nicknamed Der Kaiser ("The Emperor"), Franz Beckenbauer is the only person who has captained and coached a World Cup winning side.

The German was grace personified, the way be carried the ball out of defense as a libero. Indeed, in any conversation about the position of sweeper, Beckenbauer is the name that invariably comes to mind.

Still strongly involved in the game today, and one of the main protagonists in bringing the World Cup to Germany in 2006, Beckenbauer must look back with relish on a club career that garnered eight league titles in Germany and the USA.

Beckenbauer began his career at the age of nine in the youth team of SC Munchen 06. Despite harboring dreams of playing for 1860 Munich, the team he supported,joined Bayern in 1958 and in his first season in the regional league, the team won promotion to the recently formed Bundesliga.

With the likes of Gerd Muller and Sepp Maier in the line-up, Bayern soon became a force, winning the German Cup and European Cup Winners Cup in 1967.

Beckenbauer became captain for the 1968-69 season and led the club to their first league title. It was around this time that he started experimenting with the sweeper role, and emerged as a major weapon for his team on the counterattack. From his starting position behind the central defenders, Beckenbauer was able to act as a last line of defense while also pushing forward to attack whenever possible.

He won three more league titles and three European Cups in a row from 1974 to 1976 as Bayern swiftly emerged as a genuine superpower in the world game.

Twice selected European Footballer of the Year, Beckenbauer played 427 matches for Bayern, scoring 60 goals, before moving to New York Cosmos at the age of 32.

Beckenbauer joined the Cosmos at a time when the game was becoming more popular in the States, although it could hardly be claimed he developed as a player after the move. But he performed well, winning three Soccer Bowls and two Trans-Atlantic Championships, playing in a Ralph Lauren-designed kit in front of club record crowds. He also teamed up in defense with fellow World Cup winner Carlos Alberto.

In 1980 he joined Hamburg, staying for two seasons and winning one Bundesliga title. He would spend one final year with the Cosmos in 1983 and it is fair to say his time in New York boosted the game stateside.

After making his debut for West Germany at 20, Beckenbauer went on to play in three World Cups.

He scored two goals against Switzerland at the 1966 World Cup held in England, but could not prevent his side losing to the hosts in the final.

Four years later Beckenbauer was again involved as West Germany reached the semi-finals, before losing 4-3 to Italy. Der Kaiser played the match with a dislocated shoulder, but looks back fondly on a colorful tournament in Mexico.

Beckenbauer was in his pomp in 1974, playing in his favored position as a libero. Alongside the likes of Muller, Maier and Paul Breitner, West Germany triumphed on home turf, beating the Netherlands 2-1 in the final.

He won 103 caps for his country, becoming the first player to go past the 100 mark.

Also a European Champion with West Germany in 1972, Beckenbauer's glittering career was laden with trophies. His achievement of winning the World Cup as a coach in 1990 and leading the country's bid to host the event in 2006 make him one of the most influential figures the game has ever seen.