The 2014 World Cup is still months away, but eager fans from all over the world have started their search for tickets for next year's biggest soccer happening.

Brazil is undoubtedly the place to be between 12 June and 13 July 2014. World famous soccer players, teams from countries worldwide and millions of fans will be coming together in what is said to be the most spectacular sport event of the year. Brazil will kick the World Cup off on June 12 and the tournament will finish on July 13, with the final at the Maracana in Rio de Janeiro.

The first batch of tickets was released on 20 August this year and sold out immediately. Fortunately, there are still five more, and here are the safest and easiest ways of getting your tickets.

There are different types of tickets for sale. A selection of special tickets are available, and you can apply for either a Team Specific Ticket, which allows you to follow one specific team during the whole cup, or a Venue Specific Ticket that gives you the chance to follow any match at a particular stadium.

Tickets for individual games are divided up by category, and the prices vary.

The ticket sale phases that are left are:

5 November 2013 - 28 November 2013: Phase One first come first served

6 December: World Cup finals draw

8 December 2013 - 30 January 2014: Phase Two lottery

26 February 2014 - 1 April 2014: Phase Two first come first served

15 April 2014 - 13 July 2014: Last minute first come first served

The tickets start at $425, mostly for the first few matches played during the cup. If you have some cash to burn a final ticket in the "VIP Platinum" section will cost you around $8472.

Around 400,00 seats have been allocated to Brazilian supporters and 1% of seats at the stadiums have been allocated to disabled supporters.

To apply for tickets it is easiest to set up an account on FIFA's official website. You register your personal information and the type and amount of tickets you wish to purchase, and FIFA gets back to you if there are any available.

There are also a number of websites that offer tickets. Live World Cup 2014 Tickets are among the most credible, and sell all types of tickets to fans worldwide.

Once you have bought your tickets you will not be able to change the name on it, so if you are ordering tickets for a group of people you must make sure that you all attend the cup together in order to be let in.

If you need to sell your tickets you have to make sure all tickets in your name have been sold before you can sell yours. Tickets are permitted to be re-sold only through an official FIFA portal.

The matches will be spread out on 12 different venues, and ticket prices will vary on the stadium where the match is held.

The venues are located across Brazil and are as following:

Rio de Janeiro

Brasilia

Sao Paulo

Fortaleza

Belo Horizonte

Porto Alegre

Recife Cuiaba

Manaus

Natal

Curitiba

The English Football Association will be given a certain amount of tickets they can sell to the official EnglandFans group, as will other national associations of qualified countries.

Some travel firms are offering packages including Wold Cup tickets, flights and accommodation, but FIFA is warning supporters against booking cup tickets through travel agencies without doing a thorough control of the actual tickets first.