Peter Reid was one of the players Maradona beat on the way to scoring

Diego Maradona's second against England at the 1986 World Cup is widely regarded as the best goal ever to have been scored.

Such a topic will always be subjective, and who is to say that there was not a superior goal to Maradona's scored before the invention of the video camera?

Maradona's effort was voted FIFA World Cup Goal of the Century, scoring 18,062 votes, nearly 8000 more than Michael Owen's effort for England against Argentina in 1998.

With Argentina leading 1-0 after Maradona's infamous 'Hand of God' goal in the 1986 quarter final, El Pibe went from the ridiculous to the sublime.

Receiving the ball from Hector Enrique, just inside his own half, he went past five English defenders - Steve Hodge, Peter Beardsley, Peter Reid, Terry Butcher and Terry Fenwick - before rounding Peter Shilton and sliding the ball in. Jorge Valdano was available for a tap in but thankfully Maradona chose to finish the move off alone.

Maradona says in his autobiography El Diego: "Whenever I see it again I can't believe I managed it, honestly. Not because I scored it but because it seems like a goal that just isn't possible, a goal that you could dream of but never actually score.

"I started off from the middle of the pitch, on the right; stepped on the ball, turned, and sneaked between Beardsley and Reid. At that point I had the goal in my sights, although I still had a few meters to go. I passed Butcher on the inside and from this point Valdano was a real help, because Fenwick, who was the last one, didn't leave my side.

"I was waiting for him to stand off, I was waiting to pass the ball - the logical thing to do. If Fenwick had left me, I could have given it to Valdano, who would have been one-on-one against Shilton. But he didn't do that. So I faced him, then threw a dummy one way and went the other, towards the right...Fenwick tried to close in on me, but I carried on and I already had Shilton in front of me...and Shilton bought the dummy, he bought it. I'd scored the goal of my life".

In April 2007, Lionel Messi, undoubtedly the best Argentinean player since Maradona, scored a goal from a very similar position against Getafe in the Copa del Rey.