At an early age Samir Nasri was dubbed 'the new Zinedine Zidane'. But this was more to do with his Algerian roots, upbringing in Marseille (his parents are both from the north African country but Nasri was born and grew up in Marseille) and position on the field than a similarity in playing style to the legendary France World Cup winner. Nasri is far quicker than 'Zizou' and has operated more on the wings throughout his career, although he does enjoy playing in a more central role when given license his coaches. His excellent form for much of the 2010-11 season prompted Manchester City to sign him for a reported US$40 million after protracted negotiations with Arsenal throughout August 2011.

After starting out at Marseille at the age of nine, Nasri's talent was clear for all to see. "He could do everything with the ball: stepovers, dribbling, shooting with the right or the left," said Freddy Assolen, the club scout who recruited him. He made his league debut at 17, thrown in at the deep end against Sochaux by then coach Jose Anigo. Nasri, who scored his first goal against Lille and made 24 league appearances in his first season, began to thrive in a central role behind the strikers. He was named Ligue 1's Young Player of the Year in the 2006-07 campaign as he built on the rapid progress made in his debut season. But such accolades attract attention and after one more season at Marseille, Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger moved to sign Nasri for around $24 million in May 2008, aware that Alexander Hleb was likely to join Barcelona.

Nasri, whose partner is French tennis player Tatiana Golovin, made an explosive debut when he scored after just 225 seconds against West Brom in an opening day victory. Two goals in a 2-1 win over Manchester United in September was another highlight of his first campaign in English soccer. In his first season and a half in England, Nasri demonstrated that he was ideally suited to Arsenal's slick pass and move philosophy but despite some impressive displays, there was always the impression that a more complete player was waiting to get out. Such suspicions were confirmed when Nasri really kicked into gear midway through the 2009-10 campaign, his penetrative runs and artistry ensuring that the loss of Cesc Fabregas through injury did not hit the Gunners as hard as many observers predicted. He took his fine form into the following season scoring 15 times and emerging as Arsenal's main creative force alongside Fabregas.

Nasri played for France at Under-16s, 17s, 18s, 19s and 21 level before making his debut for the senior side against Austria in 2007, setting up the winning goal for Karim Benzema with a free kick. Nasri's early performances in a France shirt were promising - he opened his account in a European Championship qualifier against Georgia later in 2007 - and he established himself under Raymond Domenech, doing enough to earn a place in the squad at Euro 2008. He was omitted from France's 2010 World Cup fiasco, something Nasri later suggested in the Arsenal matchday programme was a blessing in disguise, not least because it afforded him a proper rest over the summer.