Have you ever used paddles during a workout , either when swimming or pulling? Used correctly, they can improve your stroke mechanics, increase your pulling power, and add to your swimming workout.

On the downside, too much paddle use too soon, or forcing your stroke into the wrong pull and recovery pattern, can lead to swimmers' shoulder problems. The best way to avoid that is to build up slowly, over multiple weeks, adding a little bit more time pulling each workout until you reach your goal distance.

How far should you pull in a workout? That is up to you. I think anywhere from 10% to 50% is OK, depending upon your aim or your goal for that swim workout, the type of swim paddle, and depending upon what you do with the paddles.

Using them as a tool to build proper stroke technique could mean using them often but not continuously. You might wear them for a few laps, take them off for a few laps, then repeat.

If the goal is to build swimming strength (strength-endurance in the water, as opposed to general dryland strength training or swim-specific dryland strength training), then wearing paddles for longer durations may be in order. Wear them as part of your warm-up, possibly even 33% of the warm-up, then take them off for the rest of the workout. Alternately, put them on for part of, or all of, a main set. I do not suggest trying to sprint with paddles unless you have used them for a long time and do not have any shoulder problems. Even then, do so with caution. That does not mean you should not try to swim at a fast pace with paddles on, you can and should sometimes, but swimming a maximum short duration effort with paddles on can cause serious damage before you realize it.

I like paddles to be used for some easy swimming to remind a swimmer of good stroke patterns, and for some faster pace swimming to put some extra load onto the swimmer during a workout. I most often recommend that paddles are used along with a pull buoy to emphasize the load on the upper body.

Let's take a look at some of the paddles from Finis. They offer a variety of interesting paddles. Theirs are not necessarily better for you than another brand of swim paddle, but I do think highly of the company and the products they sell. I have purchased my own set of all of the below except for the PT Paddle. Those I have borrowed from other swimmers form time to time. There are plenty of other paddles on the market that have their place in the swimming pool, too, like the Han's Paddles, Techpaddle (a 10/10 for technique), the Star Swim Paddles, FAST Paddles (a 10/10 for strength), and many other paddles.