We previously discussed shoulder length, and strength, this article discusses muscle timing and how it pertains to the injury rate of swimmer's shoulder. Muscle timing has a few aliases, but is often referred to as motor control.

Alterations in muscle timing after an injury can disrupt motor planning and improvement. Swim coaches are commonly familiar with the two aforementioned categories, length and strength. Unfortunately, poor muscle timing can mitigate strength and length, increasing one's risk for injuries (Laudner 2012). Also, shoulder injuries cause poor muscle timing (kinesthesia), as the joint loses awareness in space (proprioception). The common muscles that do not fire properly are the four rotator cuff muscles and trapezius. The rotator cuff muscles lie in front of, on the side of, and behind the head of the humerus (upper arm), and function to stabilize the upper arm. Imagine if all four muscles are supposed to fire during the catch phase of freestyle, but only the front muscles fire. This would cause excessive anterior mobility and potentially cause impingement of the rotator cuff muscles as well as irritation of the labrum or bursae. This, in combination with poor posture, which causes the humerus to sit more anteriorly, further perpetuates impingement and irritation. Poor timing of the scapular stabilizers may increase elevation of the shoulders, decreasing the subacromial space.  Recent studies suggest shoulder laxity decreases shoulder proprioception, increasing risk for injury (Laudner 2012). Moreover, at end-range internal rotation, overhead athletes have demonstrated different kinematics than controls (Ribeiro 2012). Older populations also have been shown to have decreased proprioception in the hip, suggesting proprioception may decrease with age or perhaps decreased training (Wingert 2013).

Alterations in muscle timing have been shown consistently at the low back, but newer research is suggesting similar alterations at the shoulders and all joints (Hodges 1996; Ferreira 2004). Alterations in muscle timing are likely aided and persist by pain (Stackhouse 2011; Hodges 2011). Moreover, pain may affect motor control and learning (Hodges 2011).However, if these disruptions persist over time, they can become implanted in the cortex and persist even after the pain/injury has resolved (Tsao 2005). Janda termed this a functional lesion. These likely initiate from a compensation strategy secondary to a painful stimulus. However, only resolving pain is unlikely to restore motor control, suggesting muscle timing must also be addressed (Hodges 1996; MacDonald 2009; Hodges 2011; Crosbie 2012).

The shoulder blade stabilizers, upward rotators and rotator cuff muscles have demonstrated altered muscle activation with the presence of pain (Ludewig 2000; Cools 2002; Moraes 2008; Tucker 2010).

Once maximal strength is achieved without compensations, muscle timing exercises which force muscles to work congruently without compensations from global muscles is key (Swanik 2002). Once mastered, incorporating other body parts, while maintaining this activation can be practiced. Muscle timing exercises can also teach the athlete how to apply the correct amount of force, not allowing them to over or under contract as these misfires may result in injury risk (Maenhout 2012; Worsley 2012).

One client I worked with was an elite age group swimmer with a three year history of shoulder pain. Her parents had spent over three thousand dollars with various health care professionals! The first time I worked with this swimmer it was clear that she had gone through more trials and tribulations in the sport than most others her age. Frustration was seeping off her and her parents. I don't mean they were unpleasant in any manner; they were just highly skeptical and felt they'd seen the best rehabilitative specialist with no chagrin.

After three days of improving muscle timing her symptoms were alleviated on land, as well as in the pool! She was pleasantly surprised with the result and her parents were happy to finally achieve the desired outcome. Since her symptom alleviation she has made massive improvements in the pool and her parents have noted a resurrection in her swimming motivation.

One method to improve muscle timing is through perturbations during static and dynamic movements. These perturbations need to be performed in all planes of motion with light, gradual changes in pressure. Many people perform these movements rapidly, applying a maximal pressure on, then off. This process doesn't allow the muscles to react and will cause numerous compensations.  Another potential method is to teach accurate positioning of the shoulder during varying speeds.

These drills are pretty simple and just involve tossing a light medicine ball against a trampoline or dribbling it against the wall. Each time the ball comes back to you, the muscles of your shoulder girdle need to decelerate it. You can also use "dumbbell rebound drop-catches" in various planes of motion, similar to the catch phase of your strokes.

Attach a laser pointer to your hand and set up a target or a point. Next, move your arm into shoulder internal and external rotation, without elevating your shoulder blade, and stop the laser pointer on the bullseye. Perform this again with your eyes close. Achieve perfect scores each time, teaching the shoulder the range of motion at the shoulder joint.

Muscle length, strength, and timing are modifiable aspects for swimmers outside of the water. These are discussed in greater detail in the COR Swimmer's Shoulder System. Stay tuned for swimming biomehcanics and their role in swimmer's shoulder.