Swimming requires copious shoulder motions. In fact, the volume is estimated as ~10 million strokes in a swimming career. This amount of strokes increases the stress at the shoulder. This high volume also increases fatigue, a prerequisite for many shoulder injuries (Stocker 1996).

The exact prevalence of shoulder pain in swimmers was 3% in a study published in 1974 and has increased in recent publications: 42% in 1980 (Richardson 1980; Neer 1983), 68% in 1986 (McMaster 1987), 73% in 1993 (McMaster 1993), 40 - 60% in 1994 (Allegrucci 1994), 5 - 65% in 1996 (Bak 1996), 38% (Walker 2012). Now, many teams and swimmers are already doing injury prevention programs, but it has been determined the traditional shoulder prevention program does not reduce altered movement in the shoulder blades, a possible risk factor for swimming (Hibberd 2012).

More recently, 85% of high school-aged swimmers reported mild shoulder pain in the past year, 61% reported moderate shoulder pain, and 21% reported severe shoulder pain. Of these, only 14% had been to a physician (Hibberd 2013). Also, 47% of these swimmers report using pain medication one or more times per week (Hibberd 2013). These unsafe and improper practices increase burnout, prevent swimming improvement, ending many swimmer's careers.

However, seeing a physician or sports medicine specialist isn't always the answer. Too often a x-ray or MRI is requested which can sometimes complicate the issue. Swimmers with these structural abnormalities do not always have symptoms. In fact, I'd argue ~90% of high-school and collegiate swimmers have shoulder abnormalities! One study took diagnostic images of asymptomatic triathletes' shoulders and noted that 71% had abnormalities. They also looked at symptomatic triathletes' shoulder and found that 62% had abnormalities (Reuter, 2008). These abnormalities ranged from inflammation to rotator cuff tears, suggesting that little correlation exist between structural abnormalities and symptoms.

Another study found that 79% of asymptomatic professional pitchers had abnormal labrums (Miniaci, 2002). Neither of these studies looked at swimmers, but it is hard to believe that running or biking caused the structural abnormalities in the triathletes' shoulders. Also, pitchers perform only a fraction of the overhead movements as swimmers perform, so imagine the volume of shoulder abnormalities in swimmers!

Education of the coaches, swimmers, and parents are necessary to improve the current beliefs and practices around shoulder pain. Pain is the guide of a shoulder injury and if someone has pain seeing a rehabilitation specialist is mandatory!

Next, the use of proper muscle length, strength, and timing (LST) helps prevent and rehabilitate shoulders. Unlike traditional shoulder prevention programs which have been shown not to work (Hibberd 2012), LST takes a well-rounded approach, not just working on strength and stretching. A prevention and rehabilitation program requires individuality on a swimmer's weaknesses, but luckily most swimmers have similar needs. Also, these programs often contain the same goals, as swimming without pain still results in microinjuries of the shoulder.

Preventing an injury before one has shoulder pain is essential, as previous shoulder pain is a risk factor for a shoulder injury in swimmers (Walker 2012). Follow the LST program and combine these methods with realistic views on training volume and biomechanics and the injury rate in swimming will drop! Fewer injuries mean more consistent training, which leads to faster swimming and ample time for practice. It also allows more enjoyment in the sport and lifelong swimmers. Stay tuned for the LST program and if you want more information, considering purchasing the COR Swimmer's Shoulder System today!