The shoulder injury rate in swimming is staggering and still under reported. Luckily, there are methods for improving this abysmal rate, which can also help current pain. However, if you have shoulder pain, it is paramount to see a rehabilitation specialist. These specialist can provide individualized programs for your needs and sometimes a biomechanical analysis for improving stroke deviations, as stroke flaws can also increase shoulder stress. Nonetheless, if you're looking for a simple program for swimmer's shoulder, look no further than this ten minute guide.

Muscle length is essential for optimal muscle firing. If a muscle lies in an inadequate position, it will be weaker and increase injury risk. For example, raise your arms overhead. Now, slouch and raise your arms again. If you did this correctly, I guarantee the second time you raised your arm, you had less range of motion and potentially pain (unless you cheated and didn't hold a slouch or you are already bent like Quasimodo).

This impaired motion is not from a spell, slouching altered your muscle length and put your body at a biomechancially disadvantaged position...no fair! Luckily, muscle length is improved with simple self myofascial or manual work. My favorite method to improve muscle length is tennis ball or self myofascial releases.

From my experience the following muscles need improved length as they are "cheater" muscles. These muscles try to stabilize the shoulder blade, but this is not their primary job! Therefore, they get overworked and tight, preventing proper movement. The muscles I typically see cheating are the upper trapezius, levator scapulae, pectoralis minor, rhomboids, subscapularis, infraspinatus, scalenes and levator costum. This article will not go into soft tissue techniques for all these muscles, but it will discuss the "bang for your buck" muscles and the ones can do by themselves.

I'm a stickler on a few things, one of them is the rules for self myofasical release (SMR). Live by these rules!

1. Lie on the tennis ball focusing on the instructed areas

2. The more sensitive or tender the area, the slower you should go

3. Stop if the exercises causes pain

The upper trapezius helps rotate the shoulder blade upward, which is essential for shoulder health, but when overactive it will elevate the shoulder blade, like you're wearing them as earrings. Improving this muscles' length will return it to a better position and improve function.

Lie on your back with your knees bent and place the tennis ball on your upper shoulder. The ball can lie on approximately 3 inches of muscle. This ball should lie on the muscle and not on any bones.

Another scapular elevator and when overactive it will raise your shoulder to the sky. This position increases the risk for rotator cuff irritation and is essential to reposition.

Lie on your back with your knees bent and place the tennis ball in between your shoulder blades on the top side. This is near the superior angle of the shoulder blade for all your anatomy buffs.

The infraspinatus is commonly overworked and beat up in overhead athletes. This muscle is rapidly stretched in all overhead sports. Following a rapid stretch, the muscle will recoil and tighten up, no bueno.

Lie on your back with your knees bent and with the opposite arm place the tennis ball under the acromion, the bone on your shoulder blade.

The thoracic spine is stiff in almost everyone. Our society promotes sitting with a slouched posture and don't kid yourself, you don't sit with perfect posture 24/7. No one does, even yoga instructors with perfect "alignment" fail this "ideal" position. I'll never forget sitting in physical therapy school, being lectured about ideal posture and observing everyone's horrible posture. Luckily, we can improve thoracic mobility to allow our body to handle periods of poor posture.

Thoracic mobility may not perfectly fit in the muscle length, strength, and timing mantra, but sometimes more aggressive means are required. In most cases, improving the muscle length which is tugging on a joint is enough, but everyone is SO stiff, a more direct method is mandatory.

Lie on a long foam roll along your spine, with your knees bent and head relaxed. Place your arms on the ground, then roll back and forth slowly, not worrying about how far you roll or speed. Perform this for approximately 3 minutes.

Stop with these muscle length tissues and stay tuned for more on muscle strength and timing. If you want more information, consider purchasing the COR Swimmer's Shoulder System.