Athletes are becoming larger. This increase in size results in a greater capacity for force generation. However, the benefits of greater force is likely must not alter the amount of drag in swimming.

The reasons for larger athletes is multifactorial, ranging from improved training methodologies to nutrition. Another factor is the increased size of humans, potentially passing along the genes capable of larger growth based on the excessive nutrients available. We have all know our species weigh more and now we are likely passing on larger sized genes to our children.

Unlike ground-based sports, absolute force production is not the main determinant of success in swimming. In sports like running, the amount of force you place into the ground creates an opposite and equal reaction propelling you forward. In swimming, the amount of force elite swimmers use is quite minimal. This is why some elite swimmers are relatively smaller in size than other top level athletes. Swimmers typically have greater relative force production, opposed to absolute force production.

Elite male sprinters have a peak force of 50 - 80 pounds and on average 20 - 31 pounds of resultant force (Havrulik 2013). Compare this to the ~800 pounds of force created by Olympic track sprinters.

If creating force isn't a prerequisite for swimming success, then what aspects of force are important?

Timing of Force: In freestyle, elite swimmers are capable of turning on and off their muscles for creating force. In all sports, athletes have this ability, giving the illusion of ease. The reason elite athletes look graceful, is their ability to generate force at the correct time, then relax. In freestyle, generating force from the fingers to the armpit is important. But, more important is the generation of force from these appendages when the arm is pointing backwards. Too often novice swimmers generate force (or use muscle energy) when their arm isn't in a position of force production. This results in wasted energy and altered body position, drag, and biomechanics. Make sure, you're not firing your muscles all at once, instead follow these steps during the catch (Rushall 2013):

The catch and end of stroke provide amble times for generating and correctly using force in freestyle. When practicing, make sure you're applying force at the correct time.

If are you generating more force at the correct time, one should see the following features (Rushall 2013):

Remember, make one change on your stroke at a time, then water for improvement. If a correct biomechanical change occurs, the results above will occur rapidly. Enjoy swimming faster!