We previously discussed shoulder length, and strength, and timing, this article tackles hazardous swimming biomechanics. Swimming biomechanics play a role in the injury rate of swimmer's shoulder, since improper mechanics cause excessive stress at the shoulder joint.

Proper technique for injury prevention is essential. I'm sure not all of the readers will agree with these biomechanical corrections for swimming propulsive reasons. However, I recommend them because they will put less stress on the shoulder joint and muscles, the primary correction for those with shoulder pain. During freestyle, ~75% of the "most pain" occurs during the first half of the pull and ~18% of pain occurs during the first half of the recovery (Pink 2000).

The most common biomechanical causes of shoulder pain in swimmers are:

Crossing over occurs when the athlete initiates their catch and brings their arm across their body. When the arm crosses the body, it closes the space on the anterior shoulder. The anterior shoulder contains the supraspinatus, the most commonly injured rotator cuff muscles.

Solution: Stabilize the shoulder during the initial catch by performing the compact position. In the compact position, it is nearly impossible to cross over and impinge the anterior rotator cuff muscles.

If an athlete enters with his or her thumb, the whole hand can enter through a smaller hole, decreasing drag. However, many athletes achieve a thumbs-first entry through shoulder internal rotation. This orientation can stress the anterior structures of the shoulder and increase the risk for shoulder impingement.

Luckily, the thumb first entry can be achieved with no movement at the shoulder. Instead, instruct your athletes to use forearm pronation (rotating the forearm inwards) instead of shoulder internal rotation to get their thumbs to enter first, decreasing the amount of drag on the entry.

Solution: Either instruct your swimmers to enter fingers first or thumb first with only forearm pronation, a difficult but beneficial difference. Consider performing finger tip drag drills or hesitation drills just prior to entry to perfect the entry.

If an athlete swims with a head-up position, this will lead to the athlete curling their neck upwards, putting many shoulder and neck muscles in improper positions. Many masters swimmers and some age-group swimmers still use this head position, impairing their strength and putting their shoulder muscles at risk for injury.

Solution: Invest in a snorkel and practice having the swimmer have the water line just above their hair line.

Every coach knows the armpit breather. This indentured swimmer has difficulties controlling and timing their neck rotation. These swimmers will often look back when they breathe or breathe late. This can irritate the shoulder by stretching and putting the shoulder muscles at the wrong muscle length.

Solution: Instruct the swimmer to initiate their breath prior to their arm entering the water. For example, if you are breathing to your right, initiate your breath just prior to your left arm entering the water. Performing six kick rotational drills with the swimmer's arms at their side can help the swimmer learn how far and in what direction to turn their head.

Although the catch-up stroke is commonly performed, this position of elongated shoulder flexion aides to approximately 70% of shoulder impingements [likely primary impingements] (Yanai 1966). Extended time in this stretched out position minimizes the subacromial space and increases rubbing of the rotator cuff muscles, a major injury risk.

Solution: Have the swimmer enter their hand at a ~45 degree angle, with their hand traveling down, instead of parallel to the floor of the pool.

Solution: Instruct adduction of the humerus during the initial catch, ensuring the hand is not moving outside the body line.

Remember, biomechanics play a role, but not the only role. Training volume is also an avenue for shoulder stress, and if shoulder pain already exists, then muscle length, strength, and timing can prevent proper biomechanics.

The volume of repetitions increases the risk of shoulder injury in swimming. Ensure you have proper biomechanics, decreasing the stress at this delicate shoulder and prolong your career.

If you want to learn more about swimmer's shoulder, consider purchasing the COR Swimmer's Shoulder System.