Information on above ground and inground swimming pool and swim spa maintenance.

Closing Your Swimming Pool for the Season

The main purpose in winterizing your inground swimming pool is to protect it from damage due to freezing water. Another is to keep it as clean as possible for the next season. Closing your swim pool properly can save you a lot of work when it comes time to open the swimming pool for the summer. Have you found any ways to do it that saves time,...

Save Money By Picking The Right Size Pump For Your Swimming Pool

Trying to figure out the right size pump for your swimming pool? Here are some things to consider.

Which Automatic Swimming Pool Cleaner or Vacuum is Right for your Swim Pool?

Ever wonder which automatic swim pool cleaner to buy for your swimming pool? Ever buy one, only to have to bring it back and say it wasn't working right? If you answered yes to any of these questions, hopefully by the end of this article you'll have a better understanding of which pool vacuum is right for your swimming pool. With all the vacuums...

The Ultimate Guide to Pool Maintenance by Terry Tamminen - Third Edition

The Ultimate Guide to Pool Maintenance is about as complete a guide to swimming pool maintenance as I have seen written in plain English. Every home swim pool owner could benefit from something in this book.

How To Clean Swimming Pool Hand Rails and Swim Pool Ladders

You may have noticed your swimming pool handrails or ladders corroding or rusting. All steels can rust or stain depending on what chemicals they come in contact with. The stainless steel grades used in swim pool rails and ladders are fairly impervious to swimming pool water that is in balance. However, unbalanced water chemistry and some other causes (poor electrical grounding, pouring chemicals near the rails, etc.) can stain or rust them.

How To Prime Your Swimming Pool Water Filter Motor Pump

Prime is the term we use to state that the air has been mostly purged from the swimming pool water pump and that the filter pump is moving pool water. When you have lost the pump's prime, your pump is no longer pumping water through it. Sometimes it can be very difficult to regain the prime on the pump. These tips will help you get the prime back in your swimming pool water pump and filter system.

Changing The Sand In Your Swimming Pool Filter

How often should the sand in a swimming pool filter be changed? We recommend changing the sand every five years. Filter sand has been ground to a size of .45 to .55 mm in diameter and is very rough when new. This roughness is what makes the sand efficient at filtering out the particles of dirt in your water. As this roughness is smoothed out your filter's efficiency goes down. This means that your system has to run more frequently to accomplish the same task.

How To Change Your Swimming Pool Water Pump Motor

Unfortunately there comes a time in your life as a swimming pool owner when you are faced with replacing your swim pool water pump motor. This may be due to the bearings wearing out so that the motor is making a tremendous racket, or the motor won't run because it is burned out. Changing the motor is not difficult and can be done by the average pool owner provided you are comfortable working with electrical wiring.

How to Remove Stains From a Plaster Swimming Pool

Large stains covering a high percentage of the swimming pool plaster surface are usually from chemical reactions. These tips are for smaller, concentrated stains, a few inches or less in size. A small stain is usually caused by a metal object being left on the bottom long enough to rust and leave a stain.

How To Keep Ducks Out Of A Swimming Pool

Is there a foolproof method to keep ducks out of a swimming pool? Not foolproof, but there is at least one way that we have found to keep water fowl out of a swimming pool.

How To Open Your Swimming Pool For The Summer

When warm weather is approaching, it's time to think about swimming outside. Need some tips on opening a pool for a summer of swimming fun? These steps should help you get your swimming pool open the right way for the pool season.

How to Smooth Wrinkled Vinyl Swimming Pool Liners

While there are some chemical conditions that can cause a vinyl swimming pool liner to wrinkle, wrinkles most often occur in a previously unwrinkled swimming pool liners during the winter, when the swim pool is closed and the water level is lower. How can you get the wrinkles out of your vinly swimming pool liner?

How to Winterize Your Inground Swimming Pool

The main purpose in winterizing your swimming pool is to protect it from damage due to freezing water. Another is to keep it as clean as possible for the next season. Closing your swim pool properly can save you a lot of work when it comes time to open the swimming pool for the summer.

What Is The Proper Water Level In My Swim Pool?

Ideally you should keep your swimming pool water level between one third and one half the way up the opening of the pool skimmer. Why? Among other reasons, this is the level at which the swimming pool skimmers operate most efficiently.

What to do When Your Swiming Pool Lights Don't Work

Do I have to drain the swimming pool to fix my pool lights? You shouldn't need to empty the swim pool. Follow these steps and you may be able to repair the swim pool lights yourself. If in doubt, call in a professional electrician.

Easier Ways to Get Leaves Out of Your Swimming Pool

Many times we have heard the complaint that it takes too long to scoop out the leaves from the swimming pool. Upon investigation, we find that the swim pool owner is using a Leaf Skimmer to scoop out the leaves. No wonder it takes the pool owner so long! There are three simple things you can do to speed up the removal of leaves from your...

What to do When Your Swimming Pool Cover Falls Into the Pool

Getting your swimming pool open in the Spring is much easier if your swim pool cover stays on during the Winter. Having your pool cover fall into the swiming pool during the winter can leave you with a very messy pool to clean up. Cleaning your swim pool can be a very time consuming task if the cover has fallen in. Here are some tips that can help make the job of getting your swimming pool cover out of the swim pool and getting your pool ready for swimming easier.

An Inexpensive Way to Make Your Concrete Swimming Pool Look Like New Again

Is the finish of your concrete pool looking stained and blotchy? Did your pool have a white finish that now looks like a stormy sky? There is an easy and inexpensive way to make it look new. Coat it with a cement waterproofer.

What to do With Your Swimming Pool When a Hurricane is Coming

You know how to protect yourself from a storm, but what about your swimming pool? These are some of the ways you can minimize the damage to your swimming pool that might be caused by a tropical storm or hurricane.

How to Get Rid of Reoccurring Swimming Pool Algae

Algae reoccurrences happen in a swimming pool because the algae was not completely eradicated when treated. Sometimes poor or misdirected water circulation can prevent the pool chemicals from removing all of the algae.

Draining a Swimming Pool May be a Bad Idea

While it is possible to affect most repairs to your swimming pool underwater, there are circumstances that necessitate draining. You should not attempt this unless it is absolutely necessary and you are thoroughly familiar with the steps necessary to do this safely. Draining your pool can cause serious damage to it's structure. Why is it dangerous to drain a pool? Let's explain this by the type of pool and the damage that can occur.

How To Find And Repair A Leak In Your Swimming Pool

"I'm having to add water to my swimming pool every week. Do I have a leak?" Depending on the climate in your local area, it is not unusual to be losing a 1/4" of pool water a day due to evaporation. This means almost 2" a week! The biggest factors affecting this are humidity, wind, and air and water temperature.

How to Service A Swimming Pool Filter's Multiport Valve

Next to your swim pool pump and filter, the multiport valve is a swimming pool systems most important piece of equipment. The multiport valve is also known as a Vari-Flo valve, backwash valve, or filter control valve. It is important that it operates easily and properly. Some of the problems caused by a malfunctioning valve include water leaking...

How To Clean Your Swimming Pool Cartridge Filter

The proper way to clean your cartridge pool filter consists of three steps. Rinsing the loose dirt, soaking in a cartridge cleaner, and rinsing again. This cleaning method is also excellent for diatemacous earth (DE) filters at the end of the season.

Swimming Pool Stabilizer Levels

I had my swimming pool water tested and my stabilizer was 135. I was told I needed to drain my pool then refill with fresh water to lower my pool's stabilizer level. Is this correct? Why is it bad if my swim pool stabilizer is too high?

How Often Should I Clean Swimming Pool Filters?

How often should I clean the swimming pool filters? Great question! The answer can vary from filter to filter, but a general guideline on any swimming pool filter is to take a reading when the filter is clean, then clean it when the pressure rises to about 10 psi.

What's That Yellow-Brown Stain On My Swimming Pool Walls?

Do you have a yellow-brown stain on your swimming pool walls? Chances are it is iron. Many municipal and even some well water sources have iron as a contaminant. How can you be sure, and how can you get rid of it?

Choosing a Swimming Pool Filter

There is a lot of confusion about various swimming pool filters, and many different opinions. Here are a few facts to consider. The first is that a pool water can be properly maintained with any of the filter systems available: Sand, Cartridge, or Diatomaceous Earth.

Draining Inground Swimming Pools

A reader asks: I'm attempting to drain my inground plaster swim pool for the first time. This is my first swimming pool and I don't know that much about it yet. Our swimming pool expert's advice: Don't do it - here is why...

My Swimming Pool is Leaking - How Do I stop the Swim Pool Leak?

It is common for people to call in about losing water from a swimming pool. There are typically one of three swim pool issues with water loss: leaks in the swim pool plumbing, leaks in the swimming pool shell, or excessive splash out or evaporation from the swimming pool. There are some ways you can narrow down the reasons behind your leaky swimming pool.