Devices to help with your swim exercise routine in and out of the swimming pool. Get a workout with or without the water...

Aqua Trend Water Workout Station

This device fits on the side of a pool, and providing a way to complete a series of exercises without impact, using the resistance of the water.

Endless Pools

The Endless Pool provides all the benefits of a full size pool in an 8 x 15 foot space.

Hand Paddles for Swimmers

Take a look at some of Finis' swim paddles. They offer a variety of interesting paddles for swimmers.

Swim Tether Stationary Swimming Belt

The Swim Tether and Swim Tether Mini are good tools for lap swimmers that only have access to pools that won't work for swimming laps.

Power Rack

Used for high intensity sprint training.  Conditions the swimmer in the medium in which he competes and aids in the development of the power and speed requisite for success in competition.

Power Skip

This plyometric training aid helps you jump very, very high. It might help - it might not. But it sure looks like fun.

Power Start

A device (and clinics, too) to help swimmers get off the blocks better.

Stretch Cordz

Special surgical tubing and belts to give some variety to your workout.

Swim Cords

The SwimCords swimming tether turns backyard pools into "Liquid Gymnasiums" while giving the smallest of pools "unending length." Constructed of bungee cords for elasticity, neoprene for comfort and three Velcro straps, SwimCords allow swimmers the freedom of movement to perform nearly any swimming stroke and kick while kept comfortably in place.

SwimEx

SwimEx has taken technology to a new level and created a pool that allows you to swim, walk, run or exercise.

Finis Swimming Gear

Finis offers a variety of devices to help swimmers improve their technique, body rotation and stroke timing.

Vasa Trainer

A sturdy, well designed, and simple dryland exercise machine for swimmers and other athletes.

AquaJogger buoyancy belt 

The AquaJogger buoyancy belt comfortably suspends the body at shoulder level in deep water. Enjoy almost any activity in the water that you traditionally do on land, including running, cross country skiing, and aerobics.