Launched in October of 2012, start-up outdoor gear shopping site Buystand acts as middle man between you and the retailer, letting you name your own price for the gear you want. Buystand then polls the participating retailers to see if any will accept the deal.

Sound familiar? Yep, it's a lot like the Priceline approach to outdoor gear. Lois Friedland, Guide to Adventure Travel, took a closer look at the Buystand shopping experience and found the website and interface easy to use. So far, so good.

The big question, of course, is whether Buystand can survive and thrive in the world of online flash sales and retailers that still hope to lure shoppers into brick and mortar stores. Buystand's discounts don't typically hit flash-sale standards, and you don't get the instant gratification of just picking something up off the shelf and buying it then and there.

Gear you really need: The ten essentials for hikers

What you do get, though, is a chance at a discount on gear you were going to buy anyway. The actual price you can score gear at fluctuates according to a number of factors, but Buystand gets back to you with the results of your offer within a few hours and shipping is always free.

Intrigued? Here's what Joe Davy, CEO of Buystand, has to say about his company in a recent interview:

Joe Davy: Sure, BUYSTAND is based on a really simple concept: instead of forcing consumers to browse across a bunch of different websites, use price comparison engines, or wait for products to end up on sale, why not let customers set the price and let retailers come to them?

We built BUYSTAND on top of technology originally designed to help banks and investors find the fair price for things like stocks and bonds. We've also invested a ton in making the user experience very simple and intuitive. That means that anyone can use BUYSTAND (the youngest customer we know of, so far, is 11 years old).

To make an offer, a user simply inputs a price, and our engine sorts through all the retailers in our network that carry that specific product. Then our engine attempts to find a retailer match based on their current supply of the product. When a match is made, the user is notified, and the product ships! When we can't make a match, the user has the option of increasing their offer, or finding a similar product.

JD: We launched BUYSTAND.com in October of 2012, and the influx of users has been amazing. The response from brands and retailers has also been overwhelming. We now carry over 150,000 products from about 350 different brands.

JD: There are two key ways people find cheap gear today: flash sales sites and second-hand marketplaces. Both of these can be great resources for budget-conscious consumers, but they also have some limitations.

Flash sales sites almost always have very limited selection. This is driven by the fact that the products they carry are leftovers: the products that didn't sell in store. This model mainly works well for impulse purchases. Sites like Fab and Gilt have done a great job at expanding into premium and in-season products and they have been successful because of it.

On the other hand, second-hand (get it?) marketplaces can have dubious quality, authenticity, and (in some cases), legality issues. When consumers shop at BUYSTAND, they know they're getting a brand new, in-the-box product from our massive selection, delivered for free, and fulfilled by a trusted, authorized retailer. Best of all, they get it at the price they want to pay.

JD: BUYSTAND makes the shopping experience about the products, period. Our mission is to help consumers find the right products at the right price for them. Online shopping and price comparison sites are all about helping you decide which retailer to buy from, based on price. BUYSTAND automates this whole process. Because everyone has a different price, we don't know in advance who will be fulfilling a product. When BUYSTAND matches an offer to a retailer, the retailer often chooses to let the shopper know that they are fulfilling the order.

The retailer benefits by getting access to new customers in a new way. This lets them sell their products much faster. We've found that retailers selling on BUYSTAND can increase their rate of sales dramatically because consumers LOVE to shop this way.

JD: The first rule of negotiation is "don't be unreasonable!" This isn't a flash sales site, so although there are many incredible deals to be had, fundamentally this is a negotiation. Can you imagine walking into a store and offering $30 for a $250 jacket that isn't on sale? Probably not. The users who are the most successful on BUYSTAND are the users who make a fair offer that a retailer is likely to actually accept.

JD: BUYSTAND has an ambitious mission and that will mean a lot of hard work. The next few months are all about expanding our model into new segments of the outdoor business. Look out for a ton of new products! We send out collections of our favorite products a couple of times a week, so users who are interested should sign up for our newsletter at https://buystand.com. It's totally free and will give you access to tons of "inside-info" on new and popular products.

JD: We are currently in beta-mode. That means that we're working tirelessly to try and improve our service. We crave feedback from users, who can email us at feedback@buystand.com.