Why only 4.5 stars? It is only for freestyle, it does not get into any other strokes. This is may make it unsuitable for some swimmers looking for a book that covers all four of the competitive strokes. I don't really think it is a weakness, but it could be for some swimmers.

The book is loaded with pictures, drawings, and diagrams to help fully understand what the author's want a swimmer to do when swimming freestyle. While I think that reading through the whole book is a better way to start, checking out the table of contents and then going to the section that most interests you with a current swimming challenge might work for you, too.

The book fully covers the Swim Smooth Swim Types system of defining what kind of technique a swimmer uses, and how that type of technique can be improved. Reviewing the table of contents reads like a clinic on not just freestyle swimming, but swim training and open water racing for triathletes, too (if I have comments on a section or chapter, they are in italics below):

1. How to Use This Book2. Introduction to Freestyle Swimming3. Swimming Equipment4. The Three Keys to Better Freestyle Swimming

Technique

 5. What Makes an Efficient Freestyle Stroke?

 6. Stroke Flaws - Cause and Effect

 7. Breathing (learn to breath to either side is vital to developing symmetry)

 8. Body Position (lists 10 top causes of poor body position)

 9. Leg Kick

 10. Posture and Alignment (develop good posture on land and it can carry-over to swimming)

 11. Rotation and Arm Recovery (get your body right)

 12. Hand Entry

 13. Catch and Pull-Through (I think this is a key part that many swimmers need to develop)

 14. Stroke Rate Development

 15. The Science Behind an Efficient Freestyle Stroke (stroke length or stroke rate? Both!)

 16. Performing Your Own Video Analysis Session (find someone to help and you can get great feedback from your won swim video)

 17. The Swim Types System (the "smooth" or the "swinger" are types the authors feel are best)

 18. The Arnie

 19. The Bambino

 20. The Kicktastic

 21. The Overglider

 22. The Swinger

 23. The Smooth

Training

 24. The Importance of Fitness Training

 25. Balancing the Different Types of Fitness Training (speed/sprint, endurance, and threshold/sustainable speed)

 26. A Simple Skeleton Structure for Your Swimming Month (laying out a training plan based on how often you swim)

 27. Finding Your Critical Swim Speed (find your swim workout paces with this testing method)

 28. Pace Awareness in the Pool and Open Water

 29. Dry-Land Conditioning (some out-of-pool strength and flexibility work can be a good thing)

 30. Prevention and Management of Shoulder Injuries (good information on causes, prevention, and cures)

 31. Pool Skills (a good bit on how to properly swim in a pool by your self and with others)

 32. Nutrition for Longer Sessions and Races

Open Water

 This section of the book brings together all of the other parts and applies those parts to open water swimming

 33. The Importance of Open Water Skills

 34. Managing Anxiety

 35. Swimming Straighter

 36. Drafting Effectively

 37. Turning Around Buoys

 38. Better Wetsuit Swimming

 39. Adapting Your Stroke to a Variety of Conditions

Appendices

 A. Swim Smooth Drills (22 pages of swim drills)

 B. Swim Type Stroke Correction Processes (the steps to take to move your technique toward a better one)

 C. Training Sessions (48 different swim workouts covering 8 different types of sets)