About Appropriate Flexibility for Swimmers Shoulder

Appropriate levels of flexibility in the rotator cuff and general shoulder region will promote a proper range of motion in all planes of movement to help decrease the likelihood of Swimmers Shoulder developing

About Causes of Swimmers Shoulder

There are many possible reasons for Swimmer's Shoulder (SS) to develop. SS injury and pain from impingement and other related issues seems to occur under one or more of the following circumstances...

About Exercises to Establish Muscle Balance

To decrease instability issues and increase strength and muscle endurance that can result in impingement and Swimmers Shoulder, specific exercises can be performed to develop balanced-strength in the scapulas stabilizers and the shoulders rotator cuff

About Management and Rehabilitation of Swimmers Shoulder

A systematic process of rehabilitation and management for an impingement like Swimmer's Shoulder (SS)...

About Overview of Swimmer's Shoulder

Identifying and employing methods to decrease the incidence, duration, or intensity of Swimmer's Shoulder (SS) episodes could allow an affected athlete to return to training or competition sooner, or could prevent an athlete from encountering a SS injury.

About Prevention of Swimmer's Shoulder

If Swimmer's Shoulder is ultimately an impingement problem related to overuse, and there are ways to decrease the probability of that impingement occurring, then it logically follows that SS could be made less probable to occur

About Shoulder Injuries

Upper extremity treatment and injury information is present with focus on shoulder dysfunction. Shoulder joint mechanics, anatomy, case studies and quizzes presented.

About Shoulder Injuries

Shoulder Injuries are nearly as common as knee injuries. Learn about the most common shoulder injuries, treatments and prevention tips.

About Signs and Symptoms of Swimmers Shoulder

Swimmers Shoulder is frequently described as an impingement problem in the rotator cuff area, felt as anterior shoulder pain.

Cho-Pat Arm Strap

Recommended for swimmers and other sports enthusiasts who may develop painful bicipital or tricipital tendonitis.

About Swimmer's Shoulder

No one works hard, swimming lap after lap, just to get injured. But that may be the cause of swimmer's shoulder. Lap after lap - done the wrong way too often or too fast.

About Swimming Technique Modifications for Swimmers Shoulder

A swimmers stroke technique may be altered to reduce the likelihood or severity of a potential impingement between the rotator cuff and the coracoacromial arch and an episode of Swimmer's Shoulder.

About Training Program Elements to Reduce Swimmers Shoulder 

Several different training items should be considered when dealing with Swimmers Shoulder

About Upper Extremity Injuries

Information about sports-related upper extremity injuries, including frozen shoulder, tennis elbow, and rotator cuff injuries.

Healing Swimmer's Shoulder by Staying in the Water

Employ a 3-step approach to eliminating shoulder problems: (1) correct technique; (2) strengthen (in and out of the water); (3) learn to relax while swimming.

How can I prevent swimmer's shoulder?

NISMAT demonstrates some good stretches and techniques to help prevent swimmer's shoulder

Preventing Shoulder Injury - An In-water Program

Emmett Hines explain a plan to keep shoulder injuries at bay - he calls them "shoulder thangs".

Q & A on Swimmer's Shoulder

Some general suggestions on swimmer's shoulder from Mark Jenkins. This is very basic, but offers a simple explanation of this too-common ailment.

Preventing Shoulder Injury

TI explains a way they have found to be effective in staying injury free.

Rotator Cuff Exercises from Your Family Doctor

The exercises described on the next two pages are to help you strengthen the muscles in your shoulder (especially the rotator cuff muscles). These exercises should not cause you pain. If the exercise hurts, stop exercising.

Shoulder Injuries and Disorders

Medline's guide to shoulder injury including an overview, symptoms, prevention, and rehabilitation.

Shoulder Injuries

The American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons looks at shoulder injuries in layman's terms. This page offers some good rehab advice.

Shoulder Pain and Recovery

Alvin R. Loosli, MD and June Quick, RPT, ATC discuss the basics of shoulder injuries in swimming, from The Physician and Sports Medicine site.

Sore Shoulders

Excerpts from swimmer's discussions on soreness, what they have done about it, and a list of references on shoulder injuries; from WebSwim.

Swimmer's Shoulder - 3 possible causes

"Tendinitis in the shoulder is a common enough injury in swimming that we call it 'Swimmer's Shoulder'" - this site goes on to examne three potential causes and ways to help prevent an occurence.