Middle Distance Workouts - Focus on 100s to 300s at Moderate to Short Rest

Middle Distance Workouts - Focus on 100s to 300s at Moderate to Short Rest

100 IM Swim Workout

This workout uses some kick, some drill, and some swim IM work to sharpen your IM swimming and turning skills.

100s - Hold Pace as Rest Decreases

This swimming workout features four rounds of 3 x 100's at the same speed with decreasing rest on each subsequent 100 within a round. The workout challenges swimmers to maintain a swimming pace or speed even though the swimmer is not getting the same rest after each swim. This workout can also help a swimmer find a repeatable or sustainable swimming pace that can be used for longer swims.

200 and 100 Steady Swim Workout

A mixed effort swim workout of 200s and 100s. The number of repeats decreases as you complete the workout. Aim to keep your effort at the right levels as you swim.

Finish Speed Swim Workout - 200s

This workout focus is a broken set of 200s. Broken means the 200 is divided into shorter segments. For this workout, it is a 100 + 50 + 25 + 25.

200 to 50, Shorter = Faster

This swimming workout features a series of swims that get shorter as the workout progresses. The workout challenges swimmers to swim faster as the swimming distances get shorter. Swimmers can vary this same workout by mixing in different strokes, changing the amount of rest between swims, and by changing the amount of rest between each set of swims.

3-2-1 x 200s - Fast and Strong Swim Workout

Can you keep a series of 200s fast and even paced? Give this swim workout a try. It might take a few repeats of the workout over a few weeks, but you will get it.

6 x 250 Faster as They Go

This swimming workout is 6x250 swims with the third and sixth "broken" into smaller chunks. The aim is to get you to push yourself more as you go through them from the first 250 to the third one, then back off a little bit for the fourth one, then back at the effort on the fifth and the sixth one. Swimmers can vary this same workout by mixing in different strokes, changing the amount of rest between swims, and by changing the amount of rest between each set of swims.

Swim Workout for Middle Distance - 200s

This middle distance swim workout moves you back and forth from easier to harder, back and forth, steadily moving toward an emphasis on faster swimming as the set progresses.

A Rainbow Swim Workout

The rainbow swim workout starts easy and gets hard. Maybe you will find a pot of gold at the end?

Count Down 100s

This swim workout is comprised of 100's, done as 5-4-3-2-1, with the goal of holding a strong pace for all of them.

Back-end Speed Swim Workout

This swim workout will help you control your swimming pace and speed so you finish each swim strong!

Strong Second Halves Swim Workout 200-50-200

A workout focused on the back half of each set, it's a series of swims that get short and then long again. Your goal is to control your speed and effort on the first swim, and then while still under control, pick up the speed for the second swim.

Count Up to Shorter and Faster Swim Workout

The swim distance gets shorter and the number of swim repeats goes up. Hold your pace!

Descending Distance, Increasing Pace Repeats - 150... 50

This swimming workout features three rounds of shortening distances from 150 to 50, increased effort as that distance decreases. You can vary this same workout by following different patterns of shifting efforts and by altering the distance of the repeats.

Fast Start and Finish Swim Workout

Swim the workout the way you swim the race - start and finish each fast!

Go Time - Swim Workout for Swimmers

Swim easy or moderate, then shift your gears and sprint for a bit. Then do it again and again! Swim fast, swim moderate, swim easy - but swim!

IM For Everyone (That Can Swim All Four Strokes)

An individual medley swim workout. You will use all four competitive swimming strokes. Can't swim all four? That is OK, just substitute what you do know for what you do not.

Increasing Speed 300's to 75's - Swim Workouts for Swimmers

This swimming workout features three longer swims followed by two sets of shorter swims at a faster effort. The goal is to gradually swim at a faster pace as the workout proceeds, starting with three easy 300's and concluding with a fast set of 75's.

Individual Medley 100s - Swim Workouts for Swimmers

An individual medley workout comprised of sets of 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 100, mixing IM and choice swims.

Kick Workout to Wipe Out a Swimmers Legs!

Want to wear out your legs? This workout should do it!

Mixed Effort 100's

This swim workout features mixes swimming 100's of changing effort levels and swimming at consistent effort levels. Try to get a feel for how hard you swim and how fast you swim. You might learn that swimming a little "less hard" results in faster swimming.

Mixed Rest 100 Swims

This swimming workout features ever-changing rest intervals while the swimmer aims to maintain the same pace for each swim. It can be very challenging to keep a swimming pace or swim effort under control, this workout may help a swimmer learn how to do just that. Aim to hold the same steady, moderate effort through the entire set. As the rest...

Moving Swimming Efforts Within Each Swim Repeat - 100-150

This swimming workout features shifting efforts within swims of 100's and 150's. You can vary this same workout by following different patterns of shifting efforts and by altering the distance of the repeats.

Over and Under Efforts - Swim Workout for Swimmers

This swim workout will push you over and under your threshold again, and again, and again...

Recovery Swim Workout

This workout is all about easy swimming to recover from other, harder, workouts.

Swim "The Twelve Days of Christmas"

This swimming workout is a holiday special, counting down from 12 repeats to 1 repeat. We do a set like it the day before Christmas.

Up and Down and Up and Down 50-100-150

This workout goes from 50s to 100s to 150s, then back down again... and up and down again! Swimmers, can you swim with the same effort through the whole swim practice?