If you are thinking about getting a mountain bike, do you need to get shocks on it? Depends. The most basic mountain bikes do not have shocks, but as the price level increases, you will quickly find that mountain bikes will have either front-only shocks (hard tails) or else full suspension, both front and back shocks (called soft tails or "FS" for full suspension).

Having shocks definitely affects the comfort of your ride as well as performance. But like a lot of things in life, there are tradeoffs in each that you should be aware of.

In general, bikes without any sort of suspension will be lighter, but you'll definitely feel the more bumpy ride. True "mountain bikes" without any shocks at all are increasingly rare and can be difficult to find.

Most basic mountain bikes will have front suspension only. These are called "hardtails" and have shocks built into the front forks that absorb many of the bumps that you'll get when you ride off road.

In the next grade up, you'll find mountain bikes that come with full suspension (frequently abbreviated "FS") which means they have shocks in the front and rear. The front shocks are built into the fork like on a hardtail; the rear shocks are some sort of spring or piston incorporated into the frame to dampen the impact of bumps.

It used to be that hardtails could accelerate faster and climb better than full suspension bikes, because they were lighter and you didn't lose any transfer of energy to the rear shocks -- where when you work hard to pedal some of the effort is absorbed by the shocks as opposed to going directly to your drivetrain -- but today's full-suspension bikes are coming closer to hardtails now in that respect.

If you are riding bumpy terrain, you'll notice (and likely lament) the lack of rear suspension in a hardtail bike pretty quick, especially feeling it in your back and backside. I'm getting older (40+) and am a bigger rider, over 200 lbs., so for me I have found that FS is the way to go. However, that's not the case for everyone. Front shocks only ("hardtail") are perfectly good for many riders, and it remains true that the bike is lighter and maintains more transfer of power to the drivetrain so you can accelerate faster. So try out a couple bikes, and see what you like. Unless you absolutely cannot afford it or are only going to be riding very smooth trails, go ahead and get shocks, at least in front. Going for the full suspension is more of a decision because of the expense and extra weight.