Congratulations! You've just had an A-license stamp applied to the middle of your forehead. If you're feeling a little dizzy, it's probably not because of the stamp's spirited application - it's probably because you now have to think about buying your first set of skydiving gear.

Your skydiving rig must comprise of at least four basic components:

After that, you'll have a skyful of accessories to choose from - but you shouldn't worry about those yet.

In this article, I'll stay out of the brand rivalries, as brand specifics are somewhat peripheral to the "shopping list" of key components to purchase and the order in which you should buy them. Whether to buy these components new or used depends on the item, your timeline and your budget.

When new graduates buy gear, they get sucked into the glamour of the container purchase. This is easy to understand, as the desire to wear "your colors" in the sky - especially, on the rig you find to be the most dazzlingly attractive design on the market - is terribly compelling.

This can be a very uncomfortable and expensive mistake. That new skydiver will generally be stuck trying to squeeze an inappropriate canopy into the container, snap-downsizing to a canopy small enough to fit, scuffing an incredibly expensive new toy on biffed "learner's landings" or, as is too common, learning that the container they fell in love with doesn't suit the unique construction of their own body.

Read this linked article to learn why buying used gear is a smart idea for new skydivers - and how to do it the smart way. (It will invariably save you money, time and stress.)

Finished reading that? Great. Let's talk about the order in which to select your equipment.

Don't approach your reserve purchase thinking you'll get a small one "and figure out how to fly it if the need arises." Your reserve parachute is the one piece of skydiving equipment that may have to get you to the ground completely devoid of your input - for instance, if you're knocked out or otherwise incapacitated in the sky. The reserve you choose must be sufficiently large to land you reasonably safely if you're hanging underneath it unconscious - or if your arms are broken and you can't flare.

Yes, it's a horrible thing to think about. Yes, you have to think about it.

Thusly, your reserve must be sized according to your wing loading on that reserve, not your wing loading under your main canopy, which is, in this context, a toy - and can be as zippy as your skills will allow.

Many riggers suggest this rule of thumb for reserve sizing: install a reserve that's at least one size larger than the main canopy. Jumping a 150? Make your reserve a 170. Jumping a 190? Get a 210 reserve. The idea is to build-in as much of a margin as possible for the outlier events that would necessitate a reserve ride, not to get the sleekest possible container for your first skydives.

Jumping a 135 main but feel uncomfortable with a no-flare reserve ride under anything less than, say, a 170? You'll likely need to rethink your stance on the matter, but at the very least you'll need to buy a low-bulk option. More expensive than standard reserves, low-bulk parachutes pack about a size smaller than their normal-material counterparts. Consult a trusted rigger when making this choice, however, as low-bulk will only get you so far - and the fit may be so tight that it doesn't allow the reserve to deploy cleanly when you need it.

See a screaming deal on a round reserve parachute? Don't even think about it. Round reserves, as they are largely unsteerable, are scores less safe than ram-air reserve parachutes. Round parachutes are influenced enormously by the wind, giving you far fewer (and sometimes, no) landing options - and they aren't freebag-deployed.

The main canopy options available to a sport skydiver are dazzing! Seven-cell! Nine-cell! F-111! ZP! Hybrid! Low-Bulk! Square! Semi-elliptical! Elliptical! Airlocked! Cross-braced! Beautiful photographs soak the pages of every skydiving magazine in nylon advertising's sweet swan song.

As a brand-new skydiver, your concern should be obtaining a canopy that fits your wing-loading and allows you to land safely every time. This will likely mean jumping a larger canopy than you'd like, for longer than you'd like. Embrace it. You won't be a new skydiver forever, but if you don't lose huge chunks of the skydiving season to injuries you'll stay "new" for less time.

Your first canopy must be conservative. It should have a wing loading of 0.8 or less. Your job will then be to jump it as much as possible, maturing your skills and getting familiar with canopy handling in a wide variety of situations.

As you develop as a skydiver, you can tailor your main canopy to the direction in which you decide to take your skydiving career. If you decide to aim for swooping, you'll be flying a very different canopy than someone who's interested in CReW, formation skydiving or VFS. You'll be able to choose fabric, shape and even a line set that best suits your specific direction as a skydiver. Your mentors and your rigger can help point you in the right direction. For now, however, your focus must be safety.

Once you've done the research, it's time for the fun part. You know the size of the canopies you'll be putting into your container, so you're finally able to look at the pantheon of available harness/container systems. You'll make this choice based on the features you, your mentors and your rigger believe to be most important.

Each manufacturer publishes a "volume chart" for their container systems. This chart shows the container size you'll need in order fit your canopies in a way the manufacturer does not describe as "tight."

Discuss with your rigger and mentors the benefits and drawbacks of purchasing a container with an RSL, or reserve static line, which deploys the reserve automatically when the main parachute is cut away, not requiring the skydiver to pull the second handle to deploy the reserve parachute. (It works like this.) One version of this system, the Skyhook, is trademarked and only currently available on the Vector container sytem.

According to the USPA Skydiver Information Manual, an AAD - which stands for "automatic activation device" - is "a self-contained mechanical or electro-mechanical device that is attached to the interior of the reserve parachute container, which automatically initiates parachute deployment of the reserve parachute at a pre-set altitude, time, percentage of terminal velocity, or combination thereof."

If you did your training at a USPA member drop zone, you're already familiar with this device, as you've pushed the little button to turn it on before every single jump. If you haven't, you're lucky you haven't needed it: this little device, the size of a pack of chewing gum, deploys your reserve parachute in the event that you aren't able to do it yourself.

One AAD manufacturer, Cypres, keeps track of the number of times riggers report a life saved by their device. In February of 2013, more than 3,000 skydivers' lives had been saved by a Cypres. Most skydivers believe an AAD to be a vital component in one's skydiving rig.

Though a handful of companies make AADs, most skydivers choose one from one of the two main manufacturers: Cypres and Vigil. Both have earned their place at the top of the market due to their reputations for reliability, though different riggers and mentors have varying opinions as to which manufacturer is best.

* The Vigil II costs about $1400.00. The Vigil has a "lifetime" of 20 years and does not require regularly scheduled maintenance. Its battery lasts 10 years. The device comes standard with a "logbook" that keeps track of the total number of jumps, overall freefall time, last freefall time, maximum speed of the jumper's last freefall, the number of saves on the device, the atmospheric pressure and the temperature. You can check out the data on the device's LCD. The device also records the last 16 minutes of freefall and creates graphs that demonstrate all the collected jump data. The skydiver can download these graphs through an infrared downloader.

* The Cypres II costs about $1450.00 USD. It has an effective "lifetime" of 12 years, and it needs to be sent back to the factory every 4 years for paid maintenance, which requires a three-week turnaround. Data logging is available as an option at an additional price.