Ah, wingsuiting: the reining king of extreme sports. More and more athletes are entering skydiving with the express purpose of learning to wingsuit - and then, eventually, jump that thing off a cliff and fly into YouTube stardom.

If that's you, first do yourself the favor of slowing your roll. Seriously. After all, once you graduate from student status you'll have approximately 200 skydives to go before you can put on your wings (and that's a thing to be celebrated, not grumped-over). There are a few pervasive myths you'll have to wade through along the way. Here's the straight story.

1. Myth: If I want to wingsuit, I'd better track my butt off.

Reality: Tracking is a fantastic discipline within both skydiving and BASE jumping. However, while crucial to master, this distinct and distinguished discipline is commonly misunderstood as the definitive "stepping stone" to wingsuiting, when it's not. Even if you buy a shiny, expensive new tracking suit, tracking skill isn't a great predictor of your success once you put on a wingsuit.

Suit tracking - and certainly not slick tracking - will not teach you the correct body position for a wingsuit. (Not even close.) It won't teach you the subtleties of wingsuit exits in the BASE environment. It won't teach you how to correct for serious instabilities like wingsuit flat spins. It will, however, take you for your first experiences of deliberate forward movement in skydiving. Early-career tracking jumps help new skydivers understand the importance of avoiding a flight pattern that could cause collision with other skydiver groups, and helps more clearly illustrate the effects of strong upper winds in freefall.

There are other transferable skills. During group tracking jumps, skydivers learn how match levels to other skydivers on the jump and maintain distances that balance closeness and safety. Additionally, skydiving tracking jumps teach heading control during opening - and off-heading management - in a low-stakes format.

2. Myth: You can learn to wingsuit by yourself.

Reality: Make some friends. You're going to need them if you ever want to get better in the sky.

Over the past decade or so, skydiving has gone from being a sport with a handful of disciplines to a sport with a whole lot of unique specialties. It's easy to align yourself with a specific "team" - especially when each discipline comes with its own set of (expensive) gear. Try to resist the urge and keep an open mind.

Belly formation jumps will help you learn the vagaries of levels, fall rates, big group exits, approach during freefall, separation and the individual control of your limbs. Freeflying is similarly vital. The discipline teaches multi-positional bodyflight skills that can not only help you correct a horrifically unstable flight but have saved more than a few lives in the wingsuit BASE environment. Beyond freefall, learning hyper-precise canopy strategy within the CReW context can help you move confidently in the sky as an airfoil pilot (and keep you from picking up bad habits like uncontrolled dives into formations or backing blindly into groups).

3. Myth: This is the best sport ever - I don't have to hit the gym to be good at it.

Reality: Put down your hamburger for a second and get ready to cry.

While a few skydiving disciplines are distinctly less physically taxing than, say, a triathlon, wingsuiting is not for the unfit. The small muscles of the arms, especially around the shoulders, work hard when you're flying well. Core strength is key - especially once you've moved up to the large, demanding suits. A strong, agile body helps you dial in the details of a really great flight.

Remember, too, what you are when you put on a wingsuit: an airfoil, wrapped around a human body. If that particular body has a big tummy hanging under it, you're seriously interrupting the airflow. Formation flying is also a challenge if you're heavier than the folks with whom you're trying to fly. This isn't to say that there are no good husky wingsuit pilots - there certainly are - but if you can commit to it, getting fit will remove some significant challenges from your path to wingsuit mastery.