The first day unfolds lazily, putting its loads into skies stirring with cloud. Some loads barrel up to full altitude, while others slide along under the cloudbase and trickle jumpers out for hop-n-pops. There are freeflyers, trackers, belly groups and a whole lotta wingsuits jostling around manifest. The dripping heat is making me unwilling to don my new Squirrel Sumo today, so I'm relieved when Roberta Mancino, here as an organizer, snags me for a four-way freefly with herself, Brett Kistler and Igor Pankevitch.

We file into the military Casa we're jumping from. As the wingsuits slot themselves daintily into the web-backed seats against the sidewalls, the army flight crew cranes their necks for a look, military game-faces firmly in place. While the plane rumbles across the island to the other side of the runway, there's a flurry of hands adjusting PFDs and fussing with inlets. When the aircraft slams into full speed, we're not ready for it. We rattle into each other like a boxful of dolls, righting ourselves just in time to see the last of the island disappearing from the side-door view.

These are not jump pilots, and we're about to run out the back door of this thing over the open ocean.

The green light turns on ages before a good spot. We mill at the windows, looking at endless blue all around us, a handful of elfin islands shrugging green shoulders nonchalantly over a tie-die of shallow sandbars. Finally, I can see Contadora from my side-door perch, its long, slender strands of beach outlining what looks like the laughing head of a fancifully-drawn fish. Around it, the endless panel of sea beneath the clouds looks like a deep-blue, misplaced sky.

I smile widely in my helmet and click my visor.

High tides cover Contadora's skinny beaches at midday, so we peel off as many layers as we can manage and crowd the tables at the beach restaurant. As the kitchen promptly runs out of their supply of plumply perfect ceviche, we swab sweaty brows and listen to looping pop music, thirty pairs of eyes glued to the shifting weather.

The guy next to me tugs my sleeve. "I wonder who those guys are." He waves out over the water. "Over there."

A small, serious-looking boat is hovering just off the beach. Five soldiers stand on its landward side, black flak jackets sullen in the tropical sun, various weapons not-so-subtle in their holsters.

I have no idea who those guys are, or why they're here.

They watch us from the water as a Panamanian skydiver next to me regales the group with a series of anecdotes about local jumping. One piques my interest: the locals like to hire a chopper in Panama City, strap on BASE rigs and cruise around the archipelago, hucking down to places that look exactly like a child's drawing of a desert island.

This is something you don't get to do every day.

I have made a note of it.

The second day starts with skies buried deep in cloud.

I manifest for one of the first loads, which goes up late and tentative, as cloudbase has been flirting with 3,000' since sunrise. We elbow through the layers to look for a hole, searching for a slice of sky in the whited-out windows. There are none. We wheel around up there for a while before the pilot points it back down. The tandem opposite me smiles lopsidedly at the planeful of grouchy faces. The big-plane-tiny-runway landing, while well-executed, is more exciting than the jump probably would have been.

The next load has better luck - the island's thermal punches a keyhole directly over land, and we hustle to meet it.

When we peek out the door to spot, there's a surprise - another boat, this one gunmetal grey and parked on the side of the beach opposite from the scuttled ferry. When we land, the ship's full crew of soldiers hoots up at us, clapping. The water eventually retreats, setting the boat completely on the sand, bookending the landing.

Dinner that night is the best I've had in weeks: a pizza with a hand-tossed crust, lashed with fresh tomato sauce, excellent cheese and a smattering of whisper-thin prosciutto. Our hosts are here - the local folks who put this event together. There's Pepe, his long, silver hair tucked into a tidily bohemian ponytail, who brings a disarming smile - and a case of good wine - to the table. Then there's Toby Shacalo, all puckish grins, telling the story of the time an event pyrotechnician accidentally shot fireworks at him when he was doing a demo jump into one of Panama City's brand-new stadiums.

Both are working to build the Panamanian airsports industry at the same time as they run their very successful businesses. Both are doing a damn good job so far, and they're helped by the booming economy. There are plans in the works for a sizeable dropzone -- and a 14-foot tunnel -- next to an all-inclusive beach resort back on the mainland. Such talk would have been entirely laughable the last time I was sitting on this island, but the country is changing. Fast.

The reasons behind Panama's coffers are multiple and nuanced, but the driving force is a windfall of shopping-tourism cash. Historically, that money used to pump into Miami -- but now, since U.S. visas are becoming more and more difficult to secure, it's landing squarely in Panama's lap. The country can't seem to built shopping malls fast enough to keep up. The little island of Contadora is outside the economic splash zone for the moment, but it's the exception. The greater country is nearly unrecognizable from what it looked like 16 years ago, and it's definitely ready for their project now.

This boogie we're attending is essentially meant to be a trailer for that nascent industry -- the organizers are smart enough to know that they need jaw-dropping footage to convince jumpers to travel. The strength of that pitch relies on a few key elements. First, they need to show off one-of-a-kind Panamanian landscapes (like Contadora, naturally). They need eyebrow-raising stunt jumps for sponsors, like the one that freefly organizer Manuel "Manny" Guevara pulled off today, swooping a Mini Cooper parked fetchingly on the beach. They also need big-name jumpers - like Roberta. Tonight, as always, she is dewy and professionally radiant, fringed scarf dangling from her hips, flitting between dinner guests with natural ease.

On the way back, a bunch of us pile onto the roof of the taxi-van and caterwaul as it careens around the curves, grabbing fistfuls of the baby vines that snake softly down from the overhanging trees.

The third day opens with a sunrise load.

I'm up at 5 a.m., and the air is already warm and heavy with moisture though the sunlight has barely begun to trickle over the blue horizon. The others on the load talk about some random magic on the beach the previous night - splashing through balmy water that glowed bright with bioluminescent algae. For such an early hour, everyone is full of smiles and stories. A few clouds have bubbled up to form tall, fluffy peaks around the island, and we holler to each other as we spin around them, kicking into the whiteness, pulling streaks into the open sky after us like taffy as the sun yawns and stretches overhead.

Later, a group of wingsuits exit over another island, 3 miles north of Contadora, and fly all the way back over the open sea. They land with dazzled faces. Their practiced attenuation has been completely dissolved by the blueness of the water, its submerged sand forming long ripples to match the cloudstreets far above.

That night, blazing tiki torches point the way to the beach bar, where Roberta and the other organizers emcee a raffle over the roaring pina colada blender. They pass out a bounty of sponsors' electronics, t-shirts, codes for steep gear discounts and a couple of free nights at the boogie hotel.

The beer is flowing, but I want to be up early. I wander away from the group. I'm drawn somehow to the inky blackness of the sleeping runway, where I sit cross-legged and watch the flickering light of the far-off torches ape the twinkling stars overhead.

I hear an out-of-place clip-clopping behind me. When I turn around, I find a young deer staring at me, less than an arms' length away. After a moment, she stretches out her neck and kisses me full on the face. Then she spins on her hooves and ambles back behind the sleeping Casa, into the hissing jungle.

This place feels just like a dream.