Over the years, skydiving has evolved an enormous number of disciplines and sub-disciplines. In many ways, it's the "mother" of most of the disciplines in the field of extreme sports. In these articles, you'll learn how to get certified as a skydiver, what lies ahead once you're jumping solo and what hijinks others are engaging in so far above the ground.

The 5 Things Every Skydiver Must Know (But No One Will Tell You)



Totally Tubular Training:

How do you get better at skydiving? Train in the wind tunnel. And do it right!

How to Start Skydiving:

It's easy to start skydiving -- and, once you have your skydiving certification, you'll likely never stop.

Indoor Skydiving Locations Outside the US

Here's a list of vertical wind tunnels to practice your bodyflight skills overseas.

List of Indoor Skydiving Locations in the United States

Names, addresses, diameter, type, location and contact information (including phone number and website) for all indoor skydiving locations in the US.



Heres What You Need to Do to Get the Best Deal on a New Skydiving Rig

Be Smart About Types, Care, Wear and Replacement

Each skydiving canopy line type has its benefits, drawbacks and idiosyncrasies. Understand the options - and learn how to best care for the line type that's saving your life.

The New Skydiver's Guide to Buying Gear

Ready to Buy Your First Skydiving Rig? Here's What You Need to Know.

Buying Used Skydiving Gear

Why to Buy Used Gear as a New Skydiver -- and How To Be Smart About It



Are you about to buy a main skydiving canopy? Don't dive into the process without this important foreknowledge.

How to Calculate Wing Loading

The Formula, the Definitions, and Everything Else You Need to Know First

The 7 Keys to Downsizing Your Skydiving Canopy

Downsizing too quickly can end your career. Here's how to do it right.

Automatic Activation Devices: The Basics

Here's what you need to know about Automatic Activation Devices (AADs) for skydiving.



Looking for a holiday-season skydiving vacation? Pick your continent and pack your rig.



Your logbook is the place where you record your history in the sport. Here are your best logbook options, from paper to web to phone.

The Definitive Skydiving Boogie Packing List

Heading out for a holiday skydiving vacation? Don't forget anything!

The History of the "Boogie"

How a Skydiving Cultural Classic Came About

What's a Reserve Static Line?

The little metal clip on your riser could save your life someday. Here's where it came from, what it is, what it does and how to make sure it works for you.



Here's how to identify line burn on your skydiving gear -- and how to avoid it in the first place.

Skydiving Canopy Fabric 101

Here's the skinny on skydiving canopy fabric: how it's made, the benefits of each, and the tricky little problems to watch out for.

Hard Openings 101: Proper Packing

If your canopy deploys with sufficient force, it can end your skydiving career very abruptly. Here's how to pack in a way that minimizes your risk.



Don't feel ready for a cutaway? You're not alone - but there are a number of proven ways to boost your confidence (and, therefore, safety).

Why You Need Canopy Instruction (And Where to Look)

Don't break up with skydiving over a troubled relationship with your nylon. Here's help.

All About Opening Shock: Snatch Force

Opening shock is a 2-part phenomenon. Here's what you need to know about the first part -- snatch force -- and what you can do to manage it.

All About Opening Shock: Inflation Force

Opening shock is a two-part phenomenon. Here's #2: canopy inflation.

The Art of DZOing

Four DZOs - of one of the world's largest dropzones, one of the newest and of one of the coolest old-DZ "facelifts" - talk about what it means to DZO.

Understanding the Stall

It's vital for skydivers and BASE jumpers to understand what happens during a stall -- and find their own system's stall point. Here's the skinny.



Here's how to intelligently investigate the way your own skydiving and BASE jumping equipment reacts to a stall.

How to Maintain Your Three-Rings

Three-ring systems look pretty tough. They're made of thick, heavy metal, after all - what could go wrong? Bad news: lots. Here's how to maintain 'em.

The Bare-Bones Guide to Skydiving Reserve Selection

A ride under the wrong reserve rarely ends well. Here's how to choose one that stacks the odds in your favor.



How does your reserve fly? If you've never had a cutaway, you probably have no idea. Here's how to get a clue.



A hotshot braked turn is likely to save you more than a couple of ugly-but-avoidable injuries in the sport - and it's an entry-level skill for BASE.

How a Wingsuit Flies

Wingsuits work using similar principles to every other human-made airfoil, from fighter planes to paragliders. Here's the science behind the magic.

Paradise Jumped

This April, 30 skydivers converged on a tiny island off the Pacific coast of Panama. The result was unlike any other boogie on the planet.



As you make your way through your early skydives towards the goal of wingsuit flying, you'll encounter a few pervasive myths. Here's the straight story.

How *NOT* To Land in Power Lines: Your Illustrated Primer

A landing in power lines has a tendency to seriously ruin an airsports athlete's day. Here are the tricks you need to know to stay well away from them.

Myth vs. Reality: Dust Devils in Skydiving

Dust devils have more than their share of lore. If all you hear are the stories, it's easy to misunderstand them. Here's what you need to know.



If you tumble halfway down a new landing area, you might be the victim of high density altitude. Read this to avoid the grass stains.

Using Radial Optic Flow Patterns For Skydiving Accuracy

1980s sci-fi and neuroscience aren't just for nerds: they share a sweet trick for skydiving accuracy. Rather land in the peas than the trees? Read on.