Almost every skydiver has a freaky dust-devil story. Some of the ones I've heard would curl your hair: dust devils in southern California strong enough to rock the jump plane like a toy; whirling 3,000-foot vortices suddenly appearing "out of nowhere" to bookend the landing area; devils hiding around the corner of a tricky BASE landing pattern in Utah. If you've made more than a handful of jumps in the desert, you've certainly at least had one swirling tower of dirt pointed out for you from an Otter window.

Since they're not uncommon occurrences, dust devils have more than their share of lore. If all you hear are the stories, it's easy to misunderstand the actual dynamics of the phenomenon. Here's what you may not know, so you can proceed with calm confidence when those telltale columns start to rise.

Reality: Not necessarily. Dust devils are caused by differentials in temperature between the air at different altitudes, not necessarily triggered by a high baseline temperature. There can be significant temperature differentials even in the springtime or the fall, so the beginning and end of "official" summertime doesn't bookend the occurrence of dust devils.

Summer temperatures do, however, boost your chances of encountering one, as summer sun means that the ground warms up throughout the day and tends to hold heat.

2.  Myth: Dust devils happen when it's windy, so manifest will put us on a wind hold if it's a real danger.

Reality: Actually, calm winds are almost always the precursors of strong dust devils.

Dust devils are not a function of ambient wind. They're technically thermals - currents of air that rise rapidly upward through pockets of cooler air above. They get their characteristic vorticular motion because they build at the intersection of two surfaces that heat the air at different rates (as conservation of angular momentum strengthens and perpetuates the spin), and their vertical shape because the air rises rapidly enough to stretch the whirling vortex like taffy. As the dust devil develops, hot air is sucked into the center of the vortex to replace the air that's rising and moving away. At a certain crux point -- much like a tornado, which is another version of the same basic dynamic -- the dust devil becomes self-sustaining, and the combined effect of the spinning and the friction of the surface below the devil moves the phenomenon along the ground.

If the air is moving with a steady push of wind, the thermal activity will be dispersed before it can develop the necessary "swirliness." If the air is still, however, the forcefully rising air builds circular momentum.

3.  Myth: Dust devils are necessarily made of dust, so they're easy to see and avoid.

Reality: Dust devils can, ironically, develop in a place that's totally dust-free, rendering them essentially invisible. If the phenomenon develops over asphalt - or, worse, within a well-maintained, grassy landing area, it won't pick up the debris that sends a red flag to skydivers.

Reality: Small dust devils can be strong enough to seriously mess with your flare, especially if you have a large, slower-moving canopy. When you hit one, you'll know - usually, one side of the canopy will surge forward ahead of the other, destabilizing your flight. If that happens during your flaring process, the result can look exactly like a hook-turn into the ground. To counteract it, you'll need to immediately perform a braked turn (and be prepared to PLF).