Human flight is one of the most compelling classifications in the field of extreme sports. These articles will help you learn more about skydiving, BASE jumping, wingsuiting, wingsuit proximity flying, ski BASE, acro paragliding, speed flying and other methods of taking to the skies.

The New Skydiver's Guide to Buying Gear



The 7 Keys to Downsizing Your Skydiving Canopy



5 Steps to Hike-and-Fly Heaven

Not only is it a great way to combine fitness with airsports, it's often the only way to reach beautiful launches you'd never otherwise get the chance to see.

The Dreaded Paragliding "Flush Cycle"

To safely and successfully navigate a flush cycle, you'll need to be MVP of a team of pilots whose names you may not yet even know. Here's how.



Sled rides are your ticket to launch (and landing) currency: often, just what the doctor ordered for your flying career.

How to Land a Paraglider Perfectly, Every Time

Want to stop biffing in? Work on these paragliding landing techniques at your home hill. Your legs will thank you.



Skydiving rigs and paragliders have very different characteristics and demand completely different pilot technique to fly well and safely. Here's how.

How to Fly In Circles (And Not Get Yelled At)

To avoid being on the receiving end of, um, *thermal birdsong*, make yourself aware of what's expected from you in the circling crowd.

6 Ways Skydivers Can Prevent Neck Injuries

Skydivers: keep your head firmly stuck to your shoulders with these tips for mindful alignment and training, both in and out of the sky.

Rise of the Squirrel

The Squirrel story started with wingsuits -- but it's much bigger than that.

The Art of DZOing

Four DZOs - of one of the world's largest dropzones, one of the newest and of one of the coolest old-DZ "facelifts" - talk about what it means to DZO.

Understanding the Stall

It's vital for skydivers and BASE jumpers to understand what happens during a stall -- and find their own system's stall point. Here's the skinny.



Here's how to intelligently investigate the way your own skydiving and BASE jumping equipment reacts to a stall.

Paragliding Vacations in Iquique: The Missing Manual

Planning a paragliding holiday in Iquique? You probably don't have all the information you'll need for a smooth trip. Here's the skinny.

The Missing Guidebook for Iquique Paragliding: Food & Dining

Planning a paragliding holiday in Iquique? You probably don't have all the information you'll need for a smooth trip. Here's the skinny.

How to Maintain Your Three-Rings

Three-ring systems look pretty tough. They're made of thick, heavy metal, after all - what could go wrong? Bad news: lots. Here's how to maintain 'em.

Why Are There Holes In Your BASE Canopy?

Why would you want holes in your BASE canopy? In the context of a vent-valve system, holes can save lives. Here's your need-to-know guide.

How to Set Your BASE Brakes for a Slider-Down Jump

Setting your BASE brakes for a slider-down jump and need a quick, illustrated reminder of the steps? Read on.

All About SIV

To be a safer paragliding pilot, you need to cause your wing to malfunction (within the context of an organized SIV course, that is). Here's how.

What You Don't Know About Insurance for BASE and Paragliding

Insurance for BASE jumpers, paragliders and other ground-launched airsports is a very tricky subject indeed. Here's an industry expert's savvy advice.

The Bare-Bones Guide to Skydiving Reserve Selection

A ride under the wrong reserve rarely ends well. Here's how to choose one that stacks the odds in your favor.



How does your reserve fly? If you've never had a cutaway, you probably have no idea. Here's how to get a clue.

How You Can Help Save Camelback

As of publication, BASE jumping from Camelback Mountain remains within the law - but some are trying to change that. Here's how you can help keep it legal.



A hotshot braked turn is likely to save you more than a couple of ugly-but-avoidable injuries in the sport - and it's an entry-level skill for BASE.

What is "Extreme Sports"?

How do we define what's "extreme" and what's not? Here, seven extreme sports pros answer from the heart -- and what they say might surprise you.

How a Wingsuit Flies

Wingsuits work using similar principles to every other human-made airfoil, from fighter planes to paragliders. Here's the science behind the magic.

Paradise Jumped

This April, 30 skydivers converged on a tiny island off the Pacific coast of Panama. The result was unlike any other boogie on the planet.



As you make your way through your early skydives towards the goal of wingsuit flying, you'll encounter a few pervasive myths. Here's the straight story.

How *NOT* To Land in Power Lines: Your Illustrated Primer

A landing in power lines has a tendency to seriously ruin an airsports athlete's day. Here are the tricks you need to know to stay well away from them.

Myth vs. Reality: Dust Devils in Skydiving

Dust devils have more than their share of lore. If all you hear are the stories, it's easy to misunderstand them. Here's what you need to know.



If you tumble halfway down a new landing area, you might be the victim of high density altitude. Read this to avoid the grass stains.

Using Radial Optic Flow Patterns For Skydiving Accuracy

1980s sci-fi and neuroscience aren't just for nerds: they share a sweet trick for airsports accuracy. Rather land in the peas than the trees? Read on.