Updated February 19, 2014 We take your privacy seriously. Please take a moment to read this privacy policy, which discloses the privacy practices of the About, Inc. ("About" or "we") websites, including About.com, About.net, AllExperts.com, CalorieCount.com, and Netplaces.com, as well as our downloadable software applications for supported devices, including mobile devices (collectively, the "Services" or "Websites"). Specifically, the policy outlines the types of information that may be gathered when you register for or use the Services, and the ways in which that information may be used. To enable you to enjoy certain features of our Services, we collect certain types of information, including personally identifiable information. For example, we collect information when you: Like many websites, and web and mobile services, we may use (or work with third party partners who use) a variety of technologies to learn more about how people interact with our Services. This section provides more information about some of those technologies and how they work. Third parties may collect information about you through the Services, including through use of the technologies described above. We may not have access to, nor control over, these third parties' data collection practices and we do not assume any liability related to their collection or use. These third parties may use cookies alone or in conjunction with web beacons or other tracking technologies to collect information about you when you use our Websites. The information they collect may be associated with your personal information or they may collect information, including personal information, about your online activities over time and across different websites and other online services. They may use this information to provide you with interest-based (behavioral) advertising or other targeted content. For instance, like many other websites and applications, in addition to our own systems, we may use DoubleClick, DoubleClick Mobile, Google, Google AdMob, nRelate (which is an affiliate of About, Inc.), PubMatic, 24/7 Connect and other third-party Ad Servers, analytics platforms and data management platforms to serve and display Advertisements, or to collect information about you and your use of the Services for other analytics purposes. They may use cookies, pixel trackers, web beacons or other internet or mobile technology to collect non-personal and/or anonymous information about your use of the Services (e.g., click stream information, browser type, time and date, subject of advertisements clicked or scrolled over) and precise geolocation and user device identification (if you have provided your consent for such collection) during and about your visits to this site and other Web sites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services likely to be of greater interest to you.  In certain cases, you have options and choices about the collection and use of information by third parties on our Websites: In addition to the above, we have implemented on our Services certain "Google Analytics" features that support Display Advertising, including re-targeting. Visitors to our Websites may opt out of Google Analytics, customize the Google Display Network ads by using the Google Ad Preferences Manager and learn more about how Google serves ads by viewing its Customer Ads Help Center. If you do not wish to participate in Google Analytics, you may also download the Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on. We may transfer your information to a third party if we or any of our affiliates are involved in a transfer or all or part of our business or assets (e.g., a sale, merger, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization) or are taking steps in anticipation of such a transaction (e.g., participating in due diligence). If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy or our privacy practices, please visit us at: Or you can contact us by mail at: Customer CareAbout, Inc.1500 Broadway, 6th Floor  New York, NY 10036