The current minimum wage, adopted by the Federal government to go into effect on July 24, 2009, is $7.25 per hour. A number of states require a higher minimum wage, so if you are an employer, you might want to check the state minimum wages for this year to make sure that you pay employees appropriately. If there is a difference between the state and Federal required minimum wage, you must pay the higher of the two. The increase in the federal minimum wage on July 24, 2008 from $5.85 to $6.55 an hour, had minimal impact on many employers nation-wide. According to the CCH Internet Research Network, part of Wolters Kluwer Law & Business, many states have already established minimum wage levels higher than the new federal level. Take a look to see your state's minimum wage and the impact of the increased federal minimum wage legislation, if any, on your organization. 
This federal minimum wage increase in was the second part of a three-step increase created by House Resolution 2206 on May 25, 2007. This legislation amended the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to require an  increase in the minimum wage from $5.15 to $5.85 per hour in July 2007, to $6.55 per hour in July 2008, and to $7.25 per hour on July 24, 2009.
 It was the first increase in the federal minimum wage in a decade. With changed economic conditions in 2009, it is worth noting that the two earlier increases affected some employers, but not many. Research by the Heritage Foundation concludes that this current increase is significant and will significantly keep employers from hiring low skilled employees, a huge blow in the middle of a high unemployment recession. CCH, which has been reporting on federal wage and hour law since the enactment of the first federal minimum wage in 1938, reports this history of the concept of a minimum wage.
 
Additional hikes in the federal minimum wage have occurred on the schedule presented in this minimum wage hike timeline. 
 
According to the Baltimore Sun story: "A PNC Economic Outlook survey done in April showed that three out of four small- and middle-market business owners said raising the minimum wage would have little or no impact on their businesses. 'In a tighter labor market, they already raised wages to be competitive,'  said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist for PNC Financial Services Group." 
Additionally, according to a SurePayroll survey of 18,000 small businesses, quoted in the Small Business Informer:
 
The impact of the federally mandated minimum wage increases for employees, while helpful, also appears to be minimal. But, that's a topic for another day. 
Please vote in my poll about the impact of the minimum wage increases on your company and comment on how these minimum wage increases will affect your company.
