What are you Doing this March? Pilates of course.  But not just any Pilates.  This March Benjamin Degenhardt the owner of 360° Pilates™ and the the founder of March MATness wants you to experience the Pilates method on a daily basis with him and a little help, from his friends. A crowd-sourced Pilates project, March MATness challenges participants to perform the Pilates Mat each day with various themes, variations and content all posted on the MarchMATness.com website. Degenhardt launched the concept last year with a simple Facebook campaign intended to invite more people to participate in Pilates as a truly accessible workout.  The project was initially a simple one, post one exercise a day and invite people to join in.  But "the project took on a life of its own and I received such wonderful feedback that I knew I wanted to expand on the original concept this year and invite collaboration", says Degenhardt. Pilates For the People. Indeed, with numerous industry events for Pilates professionals, there are precious little resources for the general public to share Pilates with their community and become part of the larger Pilates movement.  The Pilates Method Alliance conducts an annual Pilates Day but the event relies heavily on the promotion and participation of the professional community. Degenhardt really had beginners in mind when he crafted this years campaign. He's hoping that he and his team of MMbassadors can "curate" all the information online and "pack it all in one place for a short period of time so that beginning practitioners can jump start a practice with just the right content they need to get started and fall in love with the work."  Inspired by Mr. Pilates original at home workout book, Return to Life, Degenhardt hopes to ignite the spark of Pilates in a whole new community of exercise enthusiasts. How to Get Involved? "Live up to challenge" says Degenhardt. "I hope that teachers and studio owners will all lead by example, and they are encouraged to adopt the name "March MATness" for their own spin on the concept. If they want to offer special events and classes or find other ways to make the workmore accessible to a new audience, the name is free to use. Of course, people can also get involved simply by spreading the word - the more people hear about this, the more just might start practicing!"  For the everyday student, the MMbassadors will be posting regular content that aims to both instruct and inspire. The website marchmatness.com will be updated daily, and can be followed on Twitter via @marchmatness and #marchmatness. What Happens When March is Over? "While the project ends March 31st, I hope the participants' practices won't! The website will accumulate various resources throughout the entire month so that participants know where they can continue to find more information and inspiration, come April", says Degenhardt.  Will March Matness achieve its intended goal and drive a brand-new audience to the Pilates work? If so, we may see more of Joe Pilates work actually return to life.  For more information on March MATness, visit www.MarchMATness.com