 Pet skunks need calcium in their diet to prevent development of metabolic bone disease. Thankfully calcium is available in a variety of sources and finding one your skunk will eat shouldn't be too difficult. There are a variety of brands of calcium powders. Most skunk owners visit the reptile aisle in the pet store to choose one that is phosphorus free and has added Vitamin D3 in it. Rep-Cal is a popular brand because it is ground oyster shell which is naturally phosphorus free. It has roughly 75 mg of calcium per 1/16th tsp. Added Vitamin D3 is especially important if you do not provide regular exposure to UVB rays either naturally (outside from the sun) or artificially (using a reptile UVB bulb during feedings). While collard greens have 74 mg of oxalates per 100 grams they are very high in calcium. Each cup of boiled greens has 226 mg of calcium and a 14.5:1 calcium to phosphorus ratio. That means you'll be providing a couple of days worth of calcium if your skunk eats just 1/4 cup of boiled collard greens with the rest of his food.  Not only are almonds usually readily eaten by skunks by they are also a good way to provide calcium and a foraging activity for your pet. 23 almonds have about 75 mg of calcium, or two days worth of the recommended dose. By placing the almonds on the steps, under objects like cups, inside toys and toilet paper tubes, and elsewhere around where your skunk can safely explore you'll be encouraging the natural foraging behavior, providing calcium that he needs, and helping him burn extra calories (something that most skunks need to do). This is an easily accessible option for more people. Be careful of feeding dairy products to your skunk but if he can tolerate a small amount occasionally then your skunk will get 153 mg of calcium for every cup of low-fat cottage cheese he eats. Easy to find fresh or frozen, broccoli is probably something you're already regularly feeding to your pet skunk. But did you know that green vegetable packs a punch when it comes to calcium content? 148 grams of raw broccoli has about 70 mg of calcium in it and 1 cup of cooked broccoli has about 62 mg. With the price tag, availability, and calcium content, broccoli is a favorite with skunk owners. This is an easy food to sprinkle on just about anything. There are over 350 mg of calcium in just 1/4 cup of sesame seeds. Black sesame seeds have an even higher calcium content but have the hulls still on them. If your skunk will eat these tiny seeds then take advantage of this natural calcium source.  One large scrambled egg has 43 mg calcium according to Harvard University. Adding liquid medications to scrambled eggs that have been allowed to cool is a great way to get your skunk to take his medicine - and get some calcium. Just a few flakes is all your skunk will need to get a huge amount of calcium. 3/4 cup of Total™ breakfast cereal has 1000 mg of calcium according to Harvard University. If your skunk likes this cereal then take advantage of it but do not feed too much of it as feeding a lot of grains will stress the pancreas which could lead to pancreatitis. If you opt to feed dairy to your pet skunk make sure you do so in small amounts. Some skunks will get diarrhea from even just a little bit of dairy. But if your skunk can tolerate a spoonful of ricotta cheese then he'll get some calcium benefits from it. One cup of this cheese has 509 mg of calcium in it. Just like with the ricotta cheese, if your skunk can tolerate some dairy then yogurt is a great way to provide some calcium. 8 ounces of plain skim-milk yogurt has a whopping 452 mg of calcium in it! There are many other ways to offer calcium to your pet skunk and some skunks will need more than others. Get your skunk's calcium levels checked regularly with your exotics vet and have radiographs taken to assess the bone density.  