Question: Can you help with this new aggressive behavior among my cats?

When he visits, he and our male cat growl and scream at each other, and our cat charges the glass and throws himself against it. These episodes don't last long, but then our male seems to take out his aggression on our female cat. We stop it if we're there, but we've come home a few times to find clumps of (her) fur against the door.

Our two cats are indoors only, but there a outdoor neighbor cat who likes to "visit" them at the sliding glass door. I never realized how territorial cats are!

I'm not surprised you were unable to find the information on my site. It's there, but if you didn't know to search for "redirected aggression" (which is the technical name for Lloyd's attacks on Annie), it would be hard to find. I have an article on aggression between cats sharing a household called " When Housemates Fight ," which covers redirected aggression, but not in great detail.

The hardest part of the solution for redirected aggression is finding a way to keep the neighboring cat away from your sliding door. There are several cat deterrent products that might do the trick, and I've listed a few of them in my Top Picks of Commercial Cat Deterrents. The two listed at the bottom are specifically for deterring outdoor cats from your yard. You might want to also read my list of Top 10 Cat Repellents which includes several homemade remedies. Some of them may not be applicable to your dilemma, but you might find something there that would help.

Until you can come up with a permanent solution, is there any way you can confine Annie and Lloyd to another part of the house when you're absent? At least that would confine the problems to times when you might be able to intercede.

In the meantime, when you see this kind of situation developing, try to separate your cats quickly, to give them some cooling-off time. If the aggression is escalating, the scruffing techniques is particularly effective in calming your male cat long enough to allow the other to escape to safety. Note: When scruffing a cat be careful to get behind him and not in-between your two cats, to avoid possible bites or scratches.

Although I described the scruffing technique in the article referenced above, I'll copy it here for your convenience:

When you are sure Lloyd is reasonably calmed down, remove Annie from his site to a "safe room" where she can be alone to recover her poise. Redirected aggression is usually a temporary situation, and once the incident has passed, two cats will often return to their former relationship. If Annie appears to be fearful or timid around Lloyd for longer than a day or two, you might want to ask your vet if s/he can prescribe a medication to calm her.

Flower Essences are often effective in countering stress in cats, such as this kind. The most well-known are Bach Flower Essences, developed by Dr. Edward Bach in the 1930s. Rescue Remedy is a combination of several flower essences, and can be used both by humans and pets. A few drops in a water dish (or glass of water) can have a calming effect. The next time you talk to your vet, you might want to ask his opinion of Rescue Remedy. I believe some veterinarians may even sell it, or you can find it in most health-food stores, and online.