May 18-24 is National Dog Bite Prevention Week. A collaborative effort among the AVMA, the AAP and the USPS, Dog Bite Prevention Week aims to promote responsible dog ownership and increase awareness of dog bite risks. According to the AVMA, 4.5 million Americans are bitten by dogs each year, and 800,000 of those dog bites results in injuries that require medical attention (half of these being children). What can you do to help prevent dog bites? Plenty. Here are some ways to get started:

Learn how to prevent dog bites. It is important to understand that ANY dog is capable of biting, regardless of breed or size. These tips for dog owners and potential dog bite victims can help prevent dog bites.

Recognize the signs that a dog may bite. In the majority of cases, a dog will give plenty of warning before biting. Unfortunately, many people are unable to see the signs before it is too late. Once you know what to look for, the signs are very clear.

Train your dog to prevent biting. There are a number of things you can do to ensure that your dog doesn't contribute to the dog bite statistics. Proper training and socialization are absolutely essential.

Learn how to address aggression issues in your dog. If you have noticed aggressive behavior in your dog, the time to act is NOW. It may not be easy, but it is essential that you do whatever is possible in order to reverse your dog's aggressive tendencies.

Be a responsible dog owner. The best thing you can do for your dog, yourself and your community is to act responsibly when it comes to your dog. Know what it takes to be a responsible dog owner and do it!

Remember that it is up to you to do everything in your power to prevent your dog from biting someone. If your dog does bite someone, the consequences to you and your dog can be severe. This is on top of the guilt you will feel over the injuries to the bite victim. Unfortunately, even with the best of plans, bad things can still happen. That's why it's so important to know what to do if a dog bite occurs. If your dog bites someone, your first reaction might be shock or panic. However, it is important to take swift action after a dog bite. Dog bites require prompt medical attention because of the damage they can do (even if they appear minor on the surface). Hopefully, you will never be in this situation. Remember that prevention is the key. You want your dog to be your companion, not a public safety risk.