Fear, stress, and anxiety in cats has its roots in several factors, including the cat's genetics and history, however one of the foremost causes is the cat's environment and his/her relationship with others in the household, both human, and feline. Amy Shojai, CABC, addresses all these issues to help you with your fearful, stressed cat.

Ask Amy: Reducing Anxiety in Cats

Learn how to reduce anxiety in your cat with this Ask Amy FAQ by Amy Shojai, CABC for About.com. Learn tips for relieving anxiety in your cat. Refer to this checklist for ways to help your cat overcome anxiety and stress.

Ask Amy: Scared Cats

This Ask Amy column explains why scared cats act frightened, and how to make a friendly cat. Read this Ask Amy column by cats.About.com contributing writer Amy Shojai for answers about scared cats and how to make a friendly cat.

Ask Amy: Cat Stranger Danger

Learn about cat stranger danger and why cats fear strangers. Understand cat fear of strangers and how to help cats accept strangers with this article from Amy Shojai, CABC, for About.com.

Building Confidence in Fearful Felines

Refer to this behavior article by Amy Shojai, CABC, for About.com, to understand how to help fearful cats. Learn why cats act fearful and how to help fearful cats become confident.

Solve Your Cat's Separation Anxiety

Read this cat behavior article by Amy Shojai, CABC, for About.com, for tips how to solve separation anxiety in cats. Learn why cats miss the litter box due to cat separation anxiety.

Cat Aggression: Fear Aggression

Learn about cat aggression, prevent cat attack, and how to soothe fear aggression in this how-to article about cat aggression. Refer to this how-to article on cat aggression for dealing with cat fear aggression.

How to Stop Cat Over-Grooming

Read about why stress causes over-grooming behavior problems in cats. Learn how to relieve stress that causes over-grooming behavior problems in cats.

Ask Amy: Cat Hair Loss

This article by Amy Shojai, CABC, describes how to reduce boredom that increases cat stress, contributing to activities such as pulling hair out. Learn how to enrich the cat's environment to reduce boredom and stress.

Ask Amy: Gaining Trust of a Feral Cat

Read this Ask Amy column to learn about cat intelligence, cat behavior, and how cats learn from bad experiences. This Ask Amy column explains cat intelligence and how cats remember and learn from bad experiences. How can this reader gain the trust of a feral cat? Read Amy Shojai's rely for the answer.

Ask Amy: Cats Chasing Tails

Refer to this Ask Amy column by cats.About.com contributing writer Amy Shojai to learn about tail biting, hyperesthesia, and chasing tails.