We were fortunate to have Amy Shojai, CABC expert on cat behavior, to answer cat behavior questions on this site. Although Amy is now the Puppies Guide for About.com, and no longer available for cat questions, her replies to previous questions will likely help you with similar questions about your own cats.

Ask Amy: Aggressive Cat

Learn about aggressive cat behavior and how to stop cat aggression. This article explains cat social dynamics and how to resolve aggressive cat behavior.

Ask Amy: Cat Aggression

Read this Ask Amy column for helpful advice for dealing with cat agression, fearful cats, and cats urinating outside the litter box.

Ask Amy: Cat Aggression

Refer to this Ask Amy column about cat aggression and how to stop cat attacks. Learn how to stop cat attacks and cat aggression in this Ask Amy...

Ask Amy: Cat Attacking Dog

This Ask Amy column explains why cats attack dogs and how to prevent cat attack. Learn why cat attack happens in this Ask Amy article about how to stop a cat from attacking a dog.

Ask Amy: Cat Attacking People

Read this Ask Amy behavior article about why cats attack owners to learn how to stop cat attacks.

Ask Amy: Cat Attacks

Learn how to stop cat attacks with this Ask Amy article. Understand why cats attack and how to stop cat bites with this article. Refer to this article about cat aggression, cat bites, and cat fights to understand how to deal with aggressive cat behavior.

Ask Amy: Cat Behavior and Fear

Read this Ask Amy column to understand why cat behavior changes when cats become frightened.

Ask Amy: Cat Chewing Electric Cords

Learn how to stop cat chewing behavior. Why cats chew and how to stop cat chewing electric cords.

Ask Amy: Cat Chewing Electrical Wires

Learn why cats chew on wires and how to stop this dangerous behavior problem in this Ask Amy article.

Ask Amy: Cat Collar

Read this Ask Amy cat training article by Amy Shojai, CABC for about.com to learn how to train your cat to accept a cat collar and leash.

Ask Amy: Cat Drooling

Refer to this Ask Amy column by Amy Shojai, cats.about.com behavior columnist to learn about cat drooling. This column explains why cats drool when petted and feeling happy.

Ask Amy: Cat Hates Kittens

Refer to this Ask Amy column to learn why adult cats hate kittens and how to deal with cat aggression. Learn how to deal with adult cats that hate kittens, and understand cat aggression in this Ask Amy column by Amy Shojai, cats.About.com behavior contributor.

Ask Amy: Cat Meowing

This Ask Amy article explains why cats meow, and how to stop excessive cat calls and meows.

Ask Amy: Cat Neutering and "Humping"

Understanding sexual behavior of neutered cats. Why cat neutering may not stop mounting behavior. What cat mounting behavior means in neutered cats.

Ask Amy: Cat or Kitten?

Find out if an adult cat or kitten is the best choice to introduce to your cats. Learn which cats prefer an adult cat or kitten. This article by Amy Shojai, CABC explores the best cat or kitten matchmaking tips to keep pets happy.

Ask Amy: Cat Play

Learn how cats play, and how to encourage cat play. This article explains some favorite cat toys and cat games. How to encourage your cat to play.

Ask Amy: Cat Play Aggression

Learn why cats attack owners and how to deal with play aggression. This Ask Amy behavior article also explains how to stop cats biting and ways to deal with cat petting aggression.

Ask Amy: Cat Play In Water

Refer to this Ask Amy column with Amy Shojai explaining what cat play in water means. Learn why cats dunk toys in water in this Ask Amy cat behavior column.

Ask Amy: Cat Play in Water

Read this Ask Amy column to learn how to stop cat play in water. Learn how to keep cats from dumping the cat water bowl and stop cat play in water in this Ask Amy article.

Ask Amy: Cat Rattling Window Blinds

Learn why cats rattle window blinds in this Ask Amy column about cat behavior problems and kitty wake up calls. This Ask Amy column explains why cats bother window blinds, and how to stop this cat behavior problem.

Ask Amy: Cat Stranger Danger

Learn about cat stranger danger and why cats fear strangers. Understand cat fear of strangers and to help cats accept strangers.

Ask Amy: Cat Wake Up Call

Learn how to silence cat wake up calls. Night time cat wake up calls can be stopped with these easy tips from Amy Shojai, CABC, for About.com Cats.

Ask Amy: Feral Cat

This Ask Amy column by Amy Shojai on feral cats helps owners with helping a frightened feral. Learn how to make friends with a feral cat in this Ask Amy cat behavior column.

Ask Amy: Hungry Cat Begging

Read this Ask Amy to learn about how cats train owners to keep food bowls full. Learn how to stop cat screaming behavior in this Ask Amy article about cat begging for food.

Ask Amy: Introducing A New Kitten

Learn why older kittens act scared of new kittens in this Ask Amy behavior article about introducing new kittens to existing cats.

Ask Amy: Introducing Cats

This Ask Amy column by cats.About.com cat behavior contributor Amy Shojai explains steps for introducing cats, why cats dislike new pets, and how to introduce cats. Learn how to keep a new cat from attacking older cat in this Ask Amy column on how to introduce cats.

Ask Amy: Jealous Cat Behavior

Amy D. Shojai, CABC answers Ask Amy question about cats jealous of computers. Ask Amy column explains why cats act jealous of computer.

Ask Amy: Jumping Cat

Refer to this Ask Amy column about jumping cat behavior and why cats wake up owners. Learn how to stop cats waking up owners in this Ask Amy column.

Ask Amy: Kitten Aggression

Learn how to stop kitten play aggression toward other cats by reading this Ask Amy column about kitten attacks.

Ask Amy: Loud Meowing Cats

Learn how to stop loud yowling cats. Deaf cats' loud meowing can be managed with these tips from Amy Shojai, CABC, for About.com.

Ask Amy: Mean Cat

Read this Ask Amy article to learn about mean cat and angry cat behavior. This article explains why cats hate hugs, and how to make cats happy.

Ask Amy: Meowing

Learn how to stop early morning cat meowing in this Ask Amy column. Understand why cats use excessive meows and cat vocalization to wake up owners, and how to stop meowing.

Ask Amy: Mother Cat Aggression

Read this Ask Amy column by Amy Shojai, CABC, to learn why mother cat aggression is normal and how to deal with queen protecting kittens. Learn...

Ask Amy: Outside Cats

Refer to this Ask Amy column by cats.About.com behavior columnist Amy Shojai on outside cats. Learn how to harness train cats and keep outside cats safe in this Ask Amy cat behavior column.

Ask Amy: Pushy Cat Behavior

This Ask Amy column describes pushy cat behavior of top cats. Owners learn how to handle dominant behavior between cats. Bossy cats use bites, licking, and pushy behavior to get their way. Read this article on pushy cat behavior by Amy Shojai, CABC, for About.com Cats.

Ask Amy: Retarded Cat

Learn what causes cats to be retarded in this Ask Amy column about mentally disabled cats, and what to do.

Ask Amy: Scared Cats

This Ask Amy column explains why scared cats act frightened, and how to make a cat friendly.

Ask Amy: Incontinent Cats

Refer to this Ask Amy column about bowel incontinence, arthritis, and why owners should seek a diagnosis for treatment of incontinent cats.

Ask Amy: Cat Poop Problems

Read this Ask Amy column about cat pooping outside the litter box to help solve cat separation anxiety. Learn why cats poop outside the litter box in this Ask Amy column covering cat separation anxiety.

Ask Amy: Cats Chasing Tails

Refer to this Ask Amy column by cats.About.com contributing writer Amy Shojai to learn about tail biting, hyperesthesia, and chasing tails.