If you want your dog to thrive, then you need to learn the best ways to keep him happy and healthy. Dogs with proper health care and appropriate behavior will also make your life more delightful. Your dog's health and behavior go together - one directly impacts the other. A sick dog might exhibit certain clues of illness or develop behavioral problems, while a healthy dog learns faster and shows positive body language. Here's what you need to know to get your dog on the path to physical and mental wellness.

Arguably the most important aspect of your dog's well-being is health. An unhealthy dog will not benefit as much from training and may also develop behavior problems. Learn the most essential steps to keeping your dog healthy, know the warning signs to watch for, and find out more about the crucial role your veterinarian plays in your dog's health.

There are many diseases that can afflict your dog. The best way to keep your dog healthy is to educate yourself. Learn about various canine diseases and their symptoms, diagnosis, treatment and prevention.

A well-trained dog is a happier dog. Mental health and stimulation are just as important as physical health care, so dog obedience must remain a priority. Develop a basic training program and learn to teach your dog commands. It's all part of starting your dog off on the right paw!

Follow these simple steps to transform your dog from class clown to star pupil. Train your dog to sit, stay, lie down, and come when called. Teach your dog fun tricks and games. With a little practice, your dog will be able to do all kinds of useful and fun things.

Socialization means training your dog or puppy to accept new people, animals, and places. Socialization results in a happier, more well-behaved dog. Plus, it prevents behavior problems from developing.

Despite the way many of us treat them, dogs are not humans. In fact, thinking of dogs as people has led to misinterpretations of their actions. No wonder they act out - we just cannot understand them all the time. The best way to avoid or correct dog behavior problems is to learn why they occur and what they mean. Plus, you can better communicate with your dog if you can interpret his body language.