A main reason for cats' "out of the box" accidents is that they don't like the litter. Selection of cat litter depends on many factors including cost, safety, clumpability, scent, the dust factor, and its effect on the environment. But the bottom line is that if your cat won't use it, it isn't the right litter to buy. You are encouraged to write a review on yours and your cat's favorite brand of litter. The information you share about this litter may help other cat owners with their selection of cat litter.

The clumping properties of this litter were just fine. My cat didn't have any problem using this litter at all. She does seem to track it more than the litters with larger pieces (these pieces are qu… More

This product is GREAT in a lot of ways. (I have been buying it for at least a year now) I tried Feline Pine regular litter a long time ago and hated it, so did my cats. They are green pellets that ar… More

Yesterday's News = No Dust and No Mice My absolute favorite cat litter is Swheat Scoop because it's non-toxic and made from processed wheat. Unfortunately, it's also the litter of choice for the tiny mice that sometimes make their way int… More

Since my husband does more work with the litter boxes he says he prefers the World's best since it is easiest to work with. We have tried many types. I feel it is the safest with long haired Persian … More

I've tried a number of different types of cat litter, but I always come back to Scoop Away for the following reasons:1. It absorbs odors. I have 2 cats (one is a big cat who is always in the litter b… More

NEVER again. Yes, it stops odors, definitely. However, it tracks all over the house like sand, I can't stand it! It's also extremely heavy. The usual 2 inches of litter in the pan makes it ridicuousl… More

I have been using Arm and Hammer, Multi Cat Clumping litter for over a year and i have to say that it is the best litter i have ever used. I have one cat, and she likes the litter. I clean the litter… More

I have tried lts of cat litters for multi cats, THIS IS ONE OF THE WORST I HAVE EVER TRIED!!!!! you have to clean the box out everytime or the smell of cat urine is just over bearing... it doesnt clu… More

I have been buying Litter Purrfect at Costco 7 years or more. It was a perfect product and great value, easy to handle in its 30 lb jug, pleasing lemon grass fragrance. I recommended it to all my cat… More

Best cat litter EVER! And I (well, my cats) have tried about 10 different brands. I have a slight case of asthma, but with Precious Cat, I haven't had to use my inhaler in months. And no "out of the … More

I was EXTREMELY upset with this product! The litter got stuck all over my cat and the litter when wet with urine gets stuck on his paws and tail he tracked it all over the house and so not only did i… More

Pros- NONE CONS- my kittens claws get hung in the pad. No odor control, and just a terrible product overall. I saw this on sale at Petsmart for $5 a box. It was originally over $20 a box so I thought… More

Horrible product! Did not control odor & it was like scooping wet sand! My cheap litter works a whole lot better..way too expensive considering how poorly it worked & i only have one cat! Would not r… More

We have been using LitterPurrfect for 15 yrs. we love that its natural and no chemical odors. We did notice a little more dust than normal at the beginning of the year. We contacted the company and t… More