Thinking of buying cat food, scratching posts, kitty litter, cat toys, or a fitting gift for a fellow cat lover? Your Cats Guide offers her top picks for cat products in this ongoing resource section.

Products for controlling Symptoms of Allergies to Cats

If you love cats but are allergic to cats, you need all the help you can get in controlling your allergy symptoms. These are my top picks of products to help if you are allergic to cats.

Cats Grooming Supplies

While cats are basically self-cleaning animals, there are times when they definitely need human assistance, in the form of claw trimming, detangling mats, routine brushing for prevention of hairballs, dental care products to help prevent tooth decay and loss, and the occasional bathing when they've rolled in something nasty.It pays to keep a kit...

Gifts for Female Cat Lovers - Top Picks

Women who love cats are the easiest people in the world to buy gifts for. They always love anything and everything related to cats, whether it be cat-themed jewelry, books about cats, calendars featuring cats or cat-related home decor. Here are my top picks to help you with ideas for your female friends who love cats.

Top Things a Cat Needs for Survival

In order to survive, there are certain minimum things a cat needs, such as good food, water, a litter box, scratching post, and a place to sleep. Oh yes, and don't forget toys. These are my top choices for the things a well-kept cat needs for survival.

Top Gifts for Fussy Felines - Cats Who Have Everything

Are you wondering what kinds of gifts you might get for your spoiled cat - the cat who has everything? Wondering what kind of gifts to get your favorite cat for a birthday, holiday, or adoption anniversary day? Look no more - here are my top picks for the spoiled cat who has everything. You'll find a potpourri of choices to suit every gift-giving occasion for fussy cats.

Cat Gifts

Read this article about 15 cat gifts under $25, and how to make homemade cat toys and gifts. This article describes favorite inexpensive cat gifts that are helpful for cat behavior, cat training and cat health.

Warning on Counterfeit Flea Control Packaging

The EPA is cracking down on illegal packaging for flea control products being sold on the internet under the Advantage and Frontline labels. Learn how to recognize counterfeit labels and how to protect your cats from misuse of these products.

Music for Cats

Amy Shojai, CABC wrote in her article, Cats Training: Music Therapy : "Cats' training with music can help solve cat behavior problems. Our pet cats are attuned to sound and are incredibly sensitive to noises, including music. But what sort of tune gets Kitty's motor running?" From my own files and further research, I've found a number of Music CDs and downloadable MP3s designed specifically for …