Cats' nutritional needs are very specific and the nutritional quality of cat food is one of the most important factors in cats' health and longevity. These resources will help you learn all you need to know about cat food labels, cat food ingredients, and the nutritional needs of cats.

BPA Lined Cat Food Cans Pose Health Risks

Are you aware of the dangers of BPA lining in cat food cans? Learn more about BPA: what it is, what is its purpose, and how can it harm your cats.

Review of Natural Balance Platefulls

Natural Balance Platefulls are pouch-packaged meals for cats, called "Entrees." Read my review about this product after testing several varieties on my own cats.

Natural Raw Food Diet for Cats - The Hows and Whys of Feeding Cats Raw

A carefully home-prepared raw food diet closely approximates the diet cats would get in the wild; the diet to which their physiology is naturally attuned.

The Anatomy of Pet Food Recalls

Pet food recalls are frightening, both for writers who must document them, and for cat owners who follow them while worrying about their cats. Learn more about pet food recalls with this article.

Food Fit for a Cat

Read more by Kymythy R. Schultze about the obligatory carnivores that we call cats, and why it is important to feed them species-appropriate foods.

Fat Cats

Fat cats are unhealthy cats. More and more cat caregivers are coming to realize that. Serious feline diseases such as diabetes and hypertension target morbidly obese cats. Excess fat has a way of creeping up as cats age, and become more sedentary if we do not remain aware. Fortunately, armed with certain knowledge, we can prevent excess weight...

How Much Do You Know About Cat Food Ingredients - Share Your …

A recent survey discloses that many pet food consumers do not know as much as they think they know about the food their cats and dogs eat. The pet food recalls of 2007 caused more consumers to investigate the ingredients in the food they buy for their pets. Have you changed your own cat food purchasing habits? Share your experiences here.

How Much Do You Know About Cat Food?

I recently became aware of an interesting survey on pet food, conducted by the Harris Commission and commissioned by the folks at the Wellness Pet Food Company. In reading the survey results, it seems that many cat and dog owners don't know quite as much as they think they know about the food they are feeding their pets.

Your Cat's Nutritional Requirements - The Basics

Your Cat's Nutritional Requirements: The Basics, guest article by author Kymythy Schultze, CN for About.com Cats.

Age Appropriate Diet

Age Appropriate Diet for Cats - Glossary Definition

One Year After the Recalls

A year ago a massive recall of pet food was announced by Menu Foods, which started an avalanche of related recalls along with horror for thousands of people who lost their pets to tainted pet food. In the past year, consumer demand has led to a number of efforts to tighten restrictions on imported food ingredients. One year later, is pet food safe today?

How to Choose Cat Food

Cat food is one of the most important expenses of feline guardianship, next to veterinary care. It is important also to note that a nutritios cat food diet can eliminate or delay veterinary expense for a number of serious medical conditions. Learn how to read cat food labels, why some cat foods are better than others, and what those mysterious ingredients are.

The Importance of Food to Your Cat's Health

Along with veterinary care, a nutritious diet is critical to your cat's health and longevity. Learn why the right food should play an important role in responsible cat care.

Food Choices - Adoption - and Compromises

While in a perfect world people would feed their cats the best possible foods, there are times when this is impossible, for a variety of reasons. Would a cat in a kill shelter be better off left there because a potential adopter couldn't afford the best foods? Look here for a discussion of compromises in cat food choices that might be necessary at times.

Quick Tip - Making Water More Interesting to Cats

Here's a quick tip for stimulating your cat's interest in drinking water during hot summer months.

Email Class: The Role of Food in Your Cat's Health

Outside of regulary veterinary care, the food your cat eats is the most important factor to his health and longevity. These lessons will teach you everything you need to know about cat food: how to read labels, how to choose it, and foods you should avoid, and why.

Tips for Choosing Cat Food - Learning the Basics about Cat Food Labels

The ultimate purpose of this series is to help you learn how to read cat food labels to make your decision process easier in choosing the best foods for your cat

Understanding Cat Food Labels - the forumulas you need

Learn how to analyze cat food labels to better understand the meaning of the "Guaranteed Analysis" section, and exactly what the AAFCO can and cannot do in regulating cat food.

Why All the Fuss About Cat Food?

Retail cat food sales alone accounted for an estimated 8.2 billion dollars in 2002, according to Ann Gurkin, writing for the Petfood Industry magazine. It is therefore unfortunate that some of the top-selling pet foods may be doing cats an injustice, and in some cases, may actually be harming them.

Cat Food Ingredients to Avoid - Cat Food FAQ

What cat food ingredients should I avoid? Questions and Answers from About Cats email box.

Human Foods for Cats?

Let's face it: some cats are inveterate "bums" and will beg and plead most appealingly while you try to eat. While I will (rarely) give a cat a tidbit of chicken or turkey from my plate, it's a practice I don't encourage as a regular habit for a few reasons.

Focus on Food - Index of Articles - Top Picks - Reviews of Cat Foods

To help readers in their search for information about cat foods easier, here is a "shortcut" of all the original articles, cat food reviews, and top picks of premium cat foods on the About Cats Site, organized a bit differently from the Categories.

A-Z Cat Food Brands Comparison

Help for those who prefer the convenience of opening a can of cat food or a bag of dry cat food in the form of an A to Z list of all brands of cat foods, including the manufacturers' ingredients listings and guaranteed analysis (where available) for each food.

Review - Bon A-Paw Tete Gourmet Food for Cats

Guide review of Bon A-Paw Tete Gourmet Food for Cats.

Should I try a Vegan Diet for my Cats - Cat Food FAQ

Vegetarian and Vegan diets are becoming more popular among both animal activists and others concerned about health. The question often arises as to whether they should involve their cats in their vegan philosophies. Read the detailed answer to this question by HOSTBarb, host of the About Cats Forum

What's In Your Cat's Water

Could your municipal water source impurities or minerals that could adversely affect your own health or that of your cats? Find out the importance of obtaining a report and what it might mean.

What's wrong with by-products in cat food - Cat Food FAQ

Most cat experts recommend premium brands that avoid things like by-products and chicken meal, etc. However, I was thinking about how feral cats eat a whole rodent, or whole bird. It seems like the cheaper brands would be closer to a natural diet than the premium brands in this case.

Purrfect Bistro Dry and Canned Cat Food

Merrick Cat Food has produced a new line of grain-free canned and dry foods called Purrfect Bistro. Read my review of these foods to help decide if they would be good for your cat. Learn the results of this taste-test review of Purrfect Bistro Cat Food. Is this grain-free cat food the best for your cat?