We all love our dogs, but it takes more than love to be a responsible owner. Do you have what it takes? Here's how to be the kind of dog owner who is conscientious and caring about not only your dog, but others in the community.

A few weeks ago my dog got sick. First, she had a little diarrhea in the afternoon and was quite gassy all day. That night, she vomited several times. The next morning, she had stopped eating and was still vomiting. Of course, I rushed her to the clinic where I work and did lab work, x-rays, etc. By then, she was having having watery, bloody diarrhea. As part of the routine testing we always do, I sent a stool sample to the lab. I was still waiting for those results, but the other test results were pretty normal. Meanwhile, I began some basic treatments to help with the nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. The next day, my dog started feeling much better. When her stool sample came back, I was surprised to see she had Giardia. I shouldn't have really be surprised though, because we see this a lot in my area. So here I am, worrying that my dog has a GI obstruction or something equally serious. Imagine my relief to hear it was a curable parasite. Don't get me wrong, Giardia is no walk in the park. As you can see, it makes some dogs very, very sick. Fortunately, with treatment, my dog was back to normal in just a few days. I'll never know for sure where my dog picked up this parasite, but I'm so glad we caught it. Giardia is all over the environment, so infection is a real risk for dogs. Giardia is a protozoan parasite that usually lives in water, but can also be found in soil. This microscopic, one-celled organism infects its host after being ingested. The parasite lives in the host's intestinal tract, causing diarrhea. Giardia can be difficult to diagnose if the proper tests are not run. Though the treatment is a little more involved than treatment for other, more common intestinal parasites, Giardia can be cured. One important thig to know is that humans can get Giardia too, although the chance of you getting it from your dog is rare. As a dog owner, it's a good idea to educate yourself about the Giardia parasite now so you will be prepared if you or your dog is exposed. Has your dog ever had the Giardia parasite? Tell us about your experience.

Are you expecting? Congratulations! As are a dog owner, you may be wondering how it is all going to work out - especially if this is your first child. Having a baby does not mean you have to give up your dog, but it also means you have some preparation to do. No matter how sweet your dog, do not assume she will accept the new baby's arrival with open paws. However, many dogs simply fall in love with the household's newest human addition. Fortunately, there are several ways you can get your dog ready for the arrival of your new baby. These tips on preparing your dog for the new baby can get you started. With the right training and socialization, your dog is more likely to accept your new baby and continue to be a happy member of your growing family. Introducing Your Dog and New Baby

 Dogs and Toddlers Together

 The Best Dogs for Kids