Ann writes, "I've been getting some great advice on the feral cat forum. My problem seems to run into different opinions. I have been feeding this beautiful cat and his sister for eighteen months. She disappeared a few months ago and soon after a fox chased the brother but didn't catch him. I want to bring him in and make a house cat of him. I have my enclosed porch all ready for him to stay until he get used to human company and touch. He is trap shy, won't go near no matter what I use for bait. I trapped them both and did the TNR thing after they were neutered and got their shots. Do you think he still remembers that experience? Please give me your opinion; I'm really fond of this guy and would like to keep him safe in the house. He usually comes when I call him to eat. I've always given him bits of chicken when he comes, but he's never come close enough to pet. His sister used to let me scratch her belly."

Great question, Ann! Those who read this column know I use the HISS Test to evaluate problem behaviors, and it stands for health, instinct, stress, and symptom solvers.

Health often impacts cat behavior. But in this case, it appears that instinct and stress figure most prominently.

All creatures have an innate ability for self preservation. Cats that learn about dangerous situations, and survive, retain that lesson to reduce the danger of a repeat attempt that fails. Think about it; if a cat escapes a dog attack, it makes sense she'd steer clear of future encounters to avoid risk of injury. So if your feral boy was frightened by the trap (and of course he was!), it stands to reason he'd be doubly suspicious of approaching it in the future.

Increased stress makes cats more cautious. Even gregarious, confident cats become wary when stressed by disease or circumstance.

Cats are incredibly bright. And feral cats that survive may be the brightest of all, because they must learn very quickly to stay alive. It may require only one experience for a cat to thereafter "remember" the good and the bad of that situation, and apply the lessons to all future experiences.

For instance, studies have demonstrated that kitties that eat something and later become sick (even if illness is due to worms and not the food), the affected cat avoids eating that same food thereafter. It's a survival mechanism, an incredibly strong instinct that rules the behavior. So yes, one bad encounter with a live trap certainly could be remembered, and avoided in future.

It takes an enormous amount of time and patience to work with feral cats. The fact he's already coming when you call him to eat is very positive. The feral cat forum, I know, has great tips for helping with these guys. It may help to leave the trap outside in a different place than previously used, and drape it with something that smells "friendly." Perhaps a cloth that's been sprayed with Feliway would help. Have you tried tossing some catnip inside?

Or why not eliminate the trap altogether? Since your porch has been prepared for the cat, start feeding him some distance away but with the porch door open. Each day, move the food bowl closer by six inches. Eventually the bowl moves up the steps, over the threshold, and inside the porch. Don't try to close the door too quickly or when the cat escapes, he'll have learned to give the porch a wide berth! But with time and patience, you may be able to lure him in with food and love. Good luck!



