Cindy shares her home with two dogs (five-year-old Honey, and seven-year-old Blue) and just adopted a two-year-old cat she named Harley. Harley was neutered and vaccinated three weeks ago, and so far, he gets along well with the dogs. The kitty has one litter box near the back door.

"I need to know how or when to let Harley out into the yard, and know he won't run away, or get lost," says Cindy. "We got a harness, but he does not like it."

The way a cat reacts to his environment depends on emotional health, physical status, and traits of instinct. I use the H.I.S.S. Test to help explain this, which stands for health, instinct, stress, and symptom solvers.

A cat that feels bad due to a health challenge often hides. These cats allowed into the yard may dive under the shrubs--or the porch--and literally disappear for hours, days or weeks. Conversely, a healthy cat allow into the yard won't necessarily stay there. A cat's normal territorial range is two-plus miles, when allowed free range.

The hormones of intact male cats prompt them to roam far and wide, seeking feline Juliet kitties to woo and mate. Harley, although neutered, probably still has circulating testosterone for days to weeks after the surgery that can lead him astray, literally.

Cats react poorly to stress, and the normal response is fight-or-flight. A cat unencumbered by containment usually chooses flight over aggression. Since Harley is new to the family, the dogs, and the environment he is under particular flight risk. It's always important to introduce cats and dogs properly to ease this stress.

That said, indoor cats also suffer from stress often as a result of being confined with other cats or pets. More space and territory generally relieves kitty stress enormously.

In the best of all possible worlds, the outside would be perfectly safe for our cats to roll in the grass, chase butterflies (or other big game), and snooze in the sun. There would be no cars to dodge, strange dogs to elude, or sick cats to spread devastating illness.

Cats can and do learn to recognize their home territory and live outside under these stressful and dangerous situations, due to resilience and luck. It can take a cat many days to a couple of weeks to learn that THIS is home, and know how to get back after roaming. Proponents of allowing cats outside argue that a shorter but happier life trumps a long-lived but miserable indoor cat. There is great debate over the outdoor/indoor issue. I believe you can have the best of both worlds, and here's how.

Some great products are available designed specifically for cat enclosures. I particularly like the Cat FenceIn System that attaches to existing barriers.

Set up distinctive sounding wind chimes around the outside of the house, so the cat associates the chimes with "home" to help with navigation should he somehow escape the yard.

Cat condos or homemade versions can be connected to pet doors or windows, to allow Harley indoor/outdoor access that's safe. My colleague Marva Marrow, a cat behavior consultant, has a great do-it-yourself plan.

Provide kitty enrichment in the form of boxes filled with leaves for burrowing, limbs for clawing, and cat trees for climbing. Set up bird baths and feeders outside windows, with kitty perches inside for easy viewing.

I call this "liberation training" because it allows the cat to go anywhere safely. Many cats object to the harness, and fall over and act paralyzed once it's on. The key to acceptance is gradual introduction and multiple rewards, to teach kitty he CAN still move while wearing it. Here's how.