Question: What Should I Do If My Dog Dies at Home?

Losing your beloved dog is difficult in any situation. However, if your pet dies at the veterinarian's office, they can help handle the remains for you. If your dog dies suddenly at home, you will need to take certain steps and make a few decisions right away.This is a difficult time, and it's probably best if you don't have to be alone (though some people may prefer to be alone). If possible, call a close friend or family member that can help you deal practically with your pet's remains and offer emotional support. If you do not think you will physically and/or emotionally be able to handle your pet's body, choose someone than likely can.If it is during normal business hours, your vet's office can help talk you through the steps. They may also have a way of getting you in touch with someone who can pick up your pet's body (like a pet crematory or mobile vet service). In some cases, your vet's office may be able to store your pet's body for a day or two while you make a decision about aftercare arrangements. Your vet's office should also be able to put you in contact with a local company, as most vets have a relationship with at least one local pet cremation/aftercare business.

It is not pretty to talk about, but it may come down to this: you (or your friend/relative) may need to handle your pet's body. If you plan to bury your pet yourself, but cannot do it right away, then the body must be stored properly. If you wish to have your pet cremated or have the burial handled by a company that cannot take your pet's remains right away, you will also need to properly store the remains. This is likely to be the case if your pet dies in the middle of the night or over a holiday. However, please note that some pet crematories have 24/7 phone service for these kinds of situations. The most important thing to understand is that the remains of the deceased pet must be handled as soon as possible.

The brutal fact is that an animal's body begins to decompose immediately after death and will soon begin to give off a foul odor and attract insects. The hotter the temperature, the faster the rate of decomposition. Be aware that rigor mortis, the stiffening of the joints, typically begins within 10 minutes to three hours after death and can last as long as 72 hours. Again, temperature will affect this process. Ideally, the remains will be properly handled before the onset of rigor mortis. If you need to handle and prepare the remains yourself, here is how to proceed:

If you wish to bury your dog on your property, first make sure local laws allow it. Be sure to remove the body from non-biodegradable materials (like plastic) before burial. The body can be placed within a wooden or cardboard casket. The grave should be at least 3 feet deep and in a location that is not likely to erode or be accidentally dug up again.