The US Navy is hoping to widen its testing of SURTASS-LFS, a new generation of active sonar expected to out-stride any previous sonar technology. The new sonar operates at lower frequencies than older systems, producing sonar pings that travel further than ever before. SURTASS-LFS may be a technological leap, but it is also a grave threat to marine life.

The US Navy intends to equip four ships with the new sonar system and then deploy those ships around the globe so they can test the sonar in many of the world's oceans. Before this can happen, the US Navy must obtain a permit from the National Marine Fisheries Service, an all-too-simple formality (the permit is quickly being funneled down the path to approval). Conservationists argue that the public received insufficient time to comment on the impending permit approval and that little research has been conducted to evaluate (and limit) the effects the SURTASS-LFS sonar will have on cetaceans.

Militaries around the globe use active sonar to visualize the underwater world. Active sonar emits loud bursts of sound, or 'pings', that travel through tens or hundreds of miles of ocean. A ping can be as loud as 235 decibels--an auditory blast that rivals the noise produced by a Saturn V rocket launch. These powerful sound waves bounce off of everything in their path and the reflected sound is picked up by sonar receivers that interpret the echoes and use them to create an 'auditory map' of the underwater landscape.

Sound travels with great efficiency through water and moves faster and further than it does in air. Sonar pings can be very loud, which means they carry with them a great deal of energy--energy that can inflict severe internal injuries upon marine animals that happen to be too close to the source of the ping. In addition to internal injuries, sonar can also cause panic and disorientation.

Many cetaceans rely on sound for their survival. Toothed whales, for instance, navigate their way through the ocean's darkness using echolocation. They produce sounds either in their nasal plug or larynx (scientists disagree which organ is used in sound production). The sound bounces off of nearby objects and reflects back to the animal. Special sound-conducting tissue located in the whale's lower jaw directs the sound to its inner ear.

A long list of cetacean injuries and fatal strandings have been attributed to sonar-related activities over recent years. The following are just a few of the incidents that took place when Navy sonar activity was conducted close to the stranding site: