Question: What Should I Do if My Dog is Poisoned?

My dog has been exposed to a poison! What should I do?

If you think your dog has been exposed to a toxic substance, it is important that you act quickly. First, try to identify the poison. Was it eaten, inhaled or absorbed through the skin? Was it a plant or harmful food? Was it a chemical? Try to determine how much of the toxin he ate, inhaled or came into contact with. Obtain the original packaging of the toxin (if applicable).

Your next step is to call for veterinary medical advice, even if your dog is acting normal. You should not wait for your dog to show signs of illness, as it may be too late by then. Never give your dog a home remedy or other treatment without speaking with a veterinary professional first. If your family veterinarian's office is open, call them first. If the poisoning occurs after hours, call a nearby veterinary emergency clinic. A veterinary professional will be able to tell you how to proceed. The actions you will be advised to take will depend on the type of toxin exposure. The following are some actions a professional may advise:

It is a good idea to keep your dog’s medical records, identification (such as a microchip or tattoo) and other important items in an accessible area in case you have to go to a new veterinary clinic. Also, make sure your dog wears a collar with an ID tag or keep it near the door with a leash so they are easy to grab on the way out.

In general, you should contact a veterinary clinic if your dog shows any signs of illness, even if you don't suspect poisoning. The symptoms of toxicity may not appear for hours to days. Signs may be vague, such as lethargy or poor appetite. Signs of toxicity may also be more extreme, such as seizure, collapse or trouble breathing.

Do everything you can to prevent toxin exposure in the first place. Keep dangerous items out of your dog's reach (this includes your garbage). Try to use products in your home and yard that are known to be safe for pets. Take care not to drop potentially harmful food items while cooking. Choose pet-safe plants and flowers for your home and yard. Prevention is the best thing you can do to protect your dog. However, poisoning can still occur. Now you know what to do just in case your dog is poisoned.