Safety First! You want your dog with you for a very long time, so keeping her safe from harm is top priority. Learn how to keep your dog safe and avoid potentially harmful situations with these safety guidelines.

4 Car Restraint Options for Dogs

Is your dog safe from injury in your car? Dog car restraints can keep your dog safe and protect others as well in the event of a car accident. Learn about the main types of automobile restraints for your dog.

Drive With Your Dog: Car Safety Tips for Dog Owners

Before you drive with your dog in the car, know the risks. These safety tips can help keep you and your dog safer when you're on the road.

Microchipping Your Dog

Should you have a microchip implanted in your dog? Learn how microchipping works, plus find out about the pros and cons of this identification form.

Toxins and Your Dog

These are numerous substances that can pose a threat to your dog. Toxins and poisons are found in many different forms and locations. Learn what hazardous materials to avoid and how to protect your dog.

Toxic Foods and Your Dog

There are many types of people foods that can poison your dog. Some foods cause minor effects, while others can cause death. Learn what foods to avoid and keep your dog safe.

Dog Bite Prevention

Learn how to prevent dog bites to yourself and others. As dog owners, we must take responsibility for training our dogs and keeping them under control at all times. We must also help spread awareness to others about proper behavior around dogs, dog safety, and preventing dog bites. Dog bite prevention is a necessity in our world full of all...

Keep Your Dog From Becoming Lost or Stolen

As a dog owner, one of the most frightening things that can happen is the disappearance of your beloved dog. Many dogs run off to explore, then are unable to find the way home. Tragically, others are stolen. Learn how to protect your dog from becoming lost or stolen and take steps that will help increase the likelihood of your dog's safe return if the worst happens.

Taking Your Dog Online

We all worry about our dogs getting lost. A microchip and a collar with identification will help if someone finds your dog. What if your dog's ID tag listed a website all about your dog? This way, the "finder" would have information about your dog's health and special needs, as well as an easy way to find you. Take your dog online! Learn how to create a website for your dog.

Emergency Preparedness for Dogs

If disaster strikes, are you ready? What will become of you and your dog? Proper emergency preparedness can help save lives.

Halloween Safety for Dogs

Halloween can be tons of fun, but it can also lead to danger for dogs. Safety should always come first. Here's how to keep your dog safe and comfortable during Halloween.

Cold Weather Safety for Your Dog

Keep your dog safe and warm for winter - follow these cold weather safety tips for dogs. Learn about potential winter hazards and how to prevent harm to your dog.

Holiday Safety for Your Dog

Holiday safety for dogs is sometimes forgotten. The holidays are all about food, family, friends and fun. Of course you want to include your dog in the festivities, but you also need to keep your dog safe for the holidays.

Summer Safety for Dogs

The warmer months can be wonderful for you and your dog to spend time outdoors exercising and having fun. However, it is important to understand that hot temperatures can be very dangerous, too. Learn how to keep your dog safe in the summer heat.

Stories of Dog-Related Injuries

Have you ever had an accident or injury injury because of your dog, whether directly or indirectly? If you have an interesting story to share, we would love to hear it. Share your story now. And if you don't have a story, read about others and be careful! See submissions

Dogs and the 4th of July

The 4th of July is a time of celebration. It's all about food, family, fun and fireworks. However, it could be a dangerous and frightening time for your dog. Learn how to keep your dog safe during the Fourth of July holiday festivities.

Top Seven Signs a Dog May Bite

Dogs can become aggressive for any number of reasons - fear, dominance, guarding possessions. No matter the reason for the dog aggression, the...

Poisonous Plants and Your Dog

Find out what plants and flowers may be poisonous to dogs with this list of common toxic plants and flowers. Certain plants, when ingested, can cause serious harm to pets. Learn what plants to keep out of your dog's reach.

Keeping Dogs Cool in the Heat

How can you keep your dog cool in the summer heat? Here are some tips that will help cool your dog down when temperatures heat up.

Cool Treats for Hot Dogs

Here's a fun way to keep your dog safe and cool in the summertime: check out these ideas for chilled and frozen treats that are easy, inexpensive, healthy and delicious.

Rat Poison and Dogs

What should you do if your dog eats rat poison? Learn about this dangerous toxin and how to prevent rodenticide toxicity in your dog.

How to Safely Break Up a Dog Fight

One of the most dangerous events that may occur around dogs is fighting. As an owner, your instinct will likely be to step in and break up the fight. However, this can cause serous injury to you. Learn when to intervene in a dog fight and how to safely try to break it up.

What Should I Do if My Dog is Poisoned?

If you think your dog may have been exposed to a poison, it is essential to act fast. Here's what you should do in the event your dog is poisoned or exposed to a toxin.

Chemicals and Household Items Toxic to Dogs

Some chemicals and items in and around your home can seriously harm your dog if ingested, inhaled or contacted through skin. Learn which chemicals and household items are most likely to hurt your dog and what to do if poisoning occurs.

7 Safety Tips For Dog Owners

Learn about common everyday hazards in your dog's environment and how to keep your dog safe.