There are many diseases that can afflict your dog. The best way to keep your dog healthy is to educate yourself. Learn about various canine diseases and their symptoms, diagnosis, treatment and prevention.

Canine Hypothyroidism: Diagnosis and Treatment

Could your dog have hypothyroidism? Learn about the diagnosis and treatment of canine hypothyroidism. Then, contact yor vet for help.

Arthritis in Dogs - Information About Canine Osteoarthritis

Arthritis is a painful condition that is characterized by inflammation of the joints. This disease can make it difficult for a dog to get around. Find out all about arthritis and how it may affect your dog.

Deafness and Hearing Loss in Dogs

Deafness occurs in dogs for a variety of reasons and may be confusing for owners to deal with. Learn how deafness may be caused, how deafness can affect the lives of you and your dog, and how to care for your deaf dog.

Seizure Disorders in Dogs

Seizure disorders in dogs can be difficult to understand and scary for dog owners to witness. Find out how seizures are caused and what diseases are associated with seizures, Also, learn about the potential hazards of seizures.

Definition of Seizure

What is a seizure? Find out the definition of a seizure and learn how to tell if your dog has experienced a seizure.

Reader Stories - Your Dog's Seizures

Seizure disorders in dogs can be difficult to manage and frightening for owners. Has your dog suffered from a seizure disorder? Share your story so that others can learn.

Cruciate Ligament Injury in Dogs

Cruciate ligament injury is one of the most common orthopedic complications seen in dogs. Learn more about canine ruptured cruciate ligaments, including surgical treatment and physical therapy options.

All About Obesity in Dogs - Canine Weight Information for Owners

Is your dog overweight? Canine obesity is one of the most common health problems of dogs today. Obesity can lead to multiple health complications in dogs. Find out if your dog is at risk.

Conquering Canine Obesity - Dog Weight Loss Success Stories

Canine obesity is a growing problem and a serious health risk for dogs. Did you and your dog overcome canine obesity? Congratulations! Share your story with other dog owners so they can learn how to help their dogs lose weight. How did you help your dog shed the pounds?

Diabetes Mellitus in Dogs

All about Canine Diabetes Mellitus. What you need to know about diabetes in dogs, a common but often treatable endocrine disease. Learn about diabetes risk factors, symptoms of diabetes and treatment options for diabetic dogs.

The Dangers of Gastric Dilatation - Volvulus (GDV)

Gastric Dilatation and Volvulus (GDV), commonly called bloat, is a serious, life-threatening emergency condition. The stomach fills with gas and/or food, then rotates. Educate yourself about GDV / bloat so you can prevent it from harming your dog.

Heat Stroke in Dogs

Heat stroke, or hyperthermia, is a serious health issue that can cause permanent damage leading to death. Unfortunately, too many dogs succumb to heat stroke when it could have been avoided. Learn about preventing heat stroke in dogs and how to recognize the signs of heat stroke.

Rabies and Your Dog

Learn about Rabies, a very serious but preventable disease that can affect all mammals - including dogs and humans. Find out how to prevent and treat Rabies

Zoonosis Definition

Learn the definition of zoonosis and find out about zoonotic diseases.

Chronic Bad Breath in Dogs

Halitosis is the medical term used to describe an offensive odor that comes from the mouth, producing bad breath. A number of causes may be responsible for this condition, notably periodontal disease, a disease resulting from bacteria in the mouth. Bacteria is also associated with plaque and cavities.

All About Ticks on Dogs

Ticks pose a threat to dogs and other animals, including humans. Find out about ticks and your dog. Understand tick-borne diseases and how they affect you and your dog.

Canine Hypothyroidism Information

Find out all about Canine Hypothyroidism, a common but treatable endocrine disease. Learn about the causes and symptoms of hypothyroidism in dogs.

Canine Heartworm Disease

Learn about the cause, symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of heartworm disease in dogs. Keep your dog safe from heartworms.

All About Fleas on Dogs

Fleas are a nuisance to dogs and other animals, including humans. Find out all about fleas and your dogs. Learn how to kill fleas and prevent fleas from infesting your dog and your home.

Dementia in Dogs - Canine Cognitive Dysfunction

Canine cognitive dysfunction is a form of dementia (or senility) that is common in senior dogs. Find out more about cognitive dysfunction in dogs.

Common Canine Intestinal Parasites

Intestinal parasites can affect any dog, though some dogs are at a greater risk than others. Learn all about the common intestinal worms seen in dogs and how to prevent infection in your dog.

Common Parasites of the Dog

All dogs are susceptible to a variety of parasites. Some of these parasites can even affect humans as well. Learn about the most common parasites of dogs and how to keep your own dog (and yourself) safe.

Periodontal Disease in Dogs

Periodontal disease is a serious disease that can easily affect your dog. Learn all about periodontal, or gum disease and how you can protect your dog from suffering from it.

Canine Parvovirus: Information for Dog Owners

Parvo is a very serious and highly contagious virus that affects dogs. In some cases, it can be fatal. Learn all about parvo transmission, symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. Also, find out how to protect your dog from parvo.

9 Health Problems Seen in Senior Dogs

Health issues can occur in dogs of all ages, but there are certain problems associated with senior canines. Do right by your aging companion and learn bout the more common health concerns of senior canines.

Rat Poison and Dogs

What should you do if your dog eats rat poison? Learn about this dangerous toxin and how to prevent rodenticide toxicity in your dog.

Arthritis in Dogs: How to Help Your Dog

Arthritis causes pain and stiffness in dogs, affecting their quality of live. The good news is that you can make some positive changes to your dog's lifestyle and environment. Here's how you can help your dog with arthritis.

How To Help Your Itchy Dog

Skin problems are unfortunately common in dogs. Find out about allergies in dogs and learn how to help your itching, scratching, chewing dog.

Ways to Help Your Itchy Dog With Allergies

Got a dog with allergies? Here's how you can manage the itching and other problems associated with allergies in your dog.

Vomiting in Dogs

Vomiting in dogs is not uncommon. However, it's also not normal. Learn about the causes of vomiting in dogs. Find out what to do about a vomiting dog.

Urinary Tract Infections in Dogs

Could your dog have a urinary tract infection? UTIs are rather common in dogs. Find out about treatment, symptoms and causes of urinary tract infections in dogs.

Diarrhea in Dogs

Diarrhea in dogs is relatively common problem in dogs. However, don't overlook this. Find out how dogs develop diarrhea and learn how to help.

Ear Infections in Dogs

Ear infections are pretty common in dogs. What causes ear infections in dogs? Learn why dogs get ear infections, what the signs are and how to prevent future ear infections.

10 Common Dog Health Problems

Have you ever wondered about the most common dog diseases and health issues? Here are some of the most likely problems that can send your dog to the vet.

5 Potentially Serious Health Problems for Dogs

These may not be the most common health problems seen in dogs, they are definitely not rare. Read about several potentially serious diseases that can affect your dog.

Cancer in Dogs

Educate yourself about canine cancer. Find out about the signs of cancer in dogs and how it is diagnosed. Learn about cancer treatment options for dogs.

Diagnosing Cancer in Dogs

How can you find out if your dog has cancer? Learn about the tests veterinarians use to diagnose cancer in dogs.

Signs of Cancer in Dogs

Cancer in dogs is terrifying, that's why you should know the warning signs. Your understanding of the cancer signs can help save your dog's life.

Giardia in Dogs

Learn about Giardia, a protozoan parasite that affects dogs, humans and other animals. Find out how Giardia infection occurs and how it is diagnosed and treated.