All About my Dog: Readers Share Stories

Like people, each dog is unique. However, certain traits are directly related to breed. Whether you own a purebred or a mutt, we'd like to know more about your dog. Your story will help prospective owners decide whether that particular breed (or mix) is the right choice for them. Talk about your dog!

Talk About Your Dog!

Share your tale of what it's like to live with a specific breed of dog or a mutt. Your story will help prospective owners decide what dog breed is right for them.

Living with an Affenpinscher

Affenpinscher owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Affenpinschers, Affenpinscher health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with an Airedale

Airedale owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Airedale Terriers, Airedale Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with an Akita

Akita owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Akitas, Akita health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with an Alaskan Malamute

Alaskan Malamute owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Alaskan Malamutes, Alaskan Malamute health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with an Australian Cattle Dog

Australian Cattle Dog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Australian Cattle Dogs, Australian Cattle Dog health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with an Australian Shepherd

Australian Shepherd owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Australian Shepherds, Australian Shepherd health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Basenji

Basenji owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Basenjis, Basenji health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Basset Hound

Basset Hound owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Basset Hounds, Basset Hound health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Beagle

Beagle owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Beagles, Beagle health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living With a Bearded Collie

Bearded Collie owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Bearded Collies, Bearded Collie health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Belgian Malinois

Belgian Malinois owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Belgian Malinois, breed health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Bernese Mountain Dog

Bernese Mountain dog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Bernese Mountain dogs, Bernese Mountain health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Bichon Frise

Bichon Frise owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Bichon Frises, Bichon Frise health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Bloodhound

Bloodhound owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Bloodhounds, Bloodhound health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Bluetick Coonhound

Bluetick Coonhound owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Bluetick Coonhound, Bluetick Coonhound health, shedding and other breed characteristics.See submissions

Living with a Border Collie

Border Collie owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Border Collies, Border Collie health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Border Terrier

Find out what Norwich Terrier owners have to say about the breed. Learn about Norwich Terrier training and housebreaking, health concerns, and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Boston Terrier

Boston Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Boston Terriers, Boston Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Boxer

Boxer owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Boxers, Boxer health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Boykin Spaniel

Boykin Spaniel owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Boykin Spaniels, Boykin Spaniel health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Brittany

Brittany owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Brittanys, Brittany health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Brussels Griffon

Brussels Griffon owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Brussels Griffons, Brussels Griffon health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Bull Terrier

Bull Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Bull Terriers, Bull Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Bulldog

English Bulldog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking English Bulldogs, English Bulldog health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Bullmastiff

Bullmastiff owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Bullmastiffs, Bullmastiff health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Cairn Terrier

Cairn Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Cairn Terriers, Cairn Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living With a Cane Corso

Cane Corso owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Cane Corsos, Cane Corso health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Cardigan Welsh Corgi

Read what Cardigan Welsh Corgi owners have to say about their dogs. Learn about training, housebreaking and health in the Cardigan Welsh Corgis, as well as shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Cavalier King Charles Spaniel

Cavaliers King Charles Spaniel owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking King Charles Spaniels, Spaniel health, shedding and other breed characteristics.See submissions

Living with a Chesapeake Bay Retriever

Chesapeake Bay Retriever owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Chesapeake Bay Retrievers, Chessie health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Chihuahua

Chihuahua owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Chihuahuas, Chihuahua health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Chinese Crested

Chinese Crested owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Chinese Cresteds, Chinese Crested health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Chinese Shar-Pei

Chinese Shar-Pei owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Chinese Shar-Peis, Chinese Shar-Pei health, shedding and other breed characteristics.See submissions

Living with a Chow Chow

Chow Chow owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Chow Chows, Chow Chow health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Cocker Spaniel

American Cocker Spaniel owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking American Cocker Spaniels, American Cocker Spaniel health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Collie

Collie owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Collies, Collie health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Dachshund

Dachshund owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Dachshunds, Dachshund health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Dalmatian

Dalmatian owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Dalmatians, Dalmatian health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Doberman Pinscher

Doberman Pinscher owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Doberman Pinschers, Doberman Pinscher health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Dogue de Bordeaux

Dogue de Bordeaux owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking the Dogue de Bordeaux, Dogue de Bordeaux health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with an English Cocker Spaniel

English Cocker Spaniel owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking English Cocker Spaniels, English Cocker Spaniel health, shedding and other breed characteristics.See submissions

Living with an English Setter

English Setter owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking English Setters, English Setter health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with an English Springer Spaniel

English Springer Spaniel owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking English Springer Spaniels, English Springer Spaniel health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a French Bulldog

French Bulldog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking French Bulldogs, French Bulldog health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a German Shepherd Dog

German Shepherd Dog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking German Shepherds, German Shepherd health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a German Shorthaired Pointer

German Shorthaired Pointer owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking German Shorthaired Pointers, German Shorthaired Pointer health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Giant Schnauzer

Giant Schnauzer owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Giant Schnauzers, Giant Schnauzer health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Golden Retriever

Golden Retriever owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Golden Retrievers, Golden Retriever health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Great Dane

Great Dane owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Great Danes, Great Dane health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Great Pyrenees

Great Pyranees owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Great Pyraneess, Great Pyranees health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Greater Swiss Mountain Dog

Read stories about Greater Swiss Mountain Dogs, or share your own tale. Find out about training, housebreaking, health, shedding and other breed characteristics of the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog.

Living with a Greyhound

Greyhound owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Greyhounds, Greyhound health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Havanese

Havanese owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Havaneses, Havanese health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with an Icelandic Sheepdog

Icelandic Sheepdog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Icelandic Sheepdogs, Icelandic Sheepdog health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with an Irish Setter

Irish Setter owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Irish Setters, Irish Setter health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Japanese Chin

Japanese Chin owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Japanese Chins, Japanese Chin health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Keeshond

Keeshond owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Keeshonds, Keeshond health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Labrador Retriever

Labrador Retriever owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Labrador Retrievers, Labrador Retriever health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Lhasa Apso

Lhasa Apso owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Lhasa Apsos, Lhasa Apso health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Leonberger

Leonberger owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Leonbergers, Leonberger health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Maltese

Maltese owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Malteses, Maltese health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Mastiff

Mastiff owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Mastiffs, Mastiff health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Miniature Pinscher

Miniature Pinscher owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Miniature Pinschers, Miniature Pinscher health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Miniature Schnauzer

Miniature Schnauzer owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Miniature Schnauzers, Miniature Schnauzer health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Mixed Breed Dog

Mixed Breed owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Mixed Breeds, Mixed Breed health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Newfoundland

Newfoundland owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Newfoundlands, Newfoundland health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Norfolk Terrier

Find out what Norwich Terrier owners have to say about the breed. Learn about Norwich Terrier training and housebreaking, health concerns, and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Norwich Terrier

Find out what Norwich Terrier owners have to say about the breed. Learn about Norwich Terrier training and housebreaking, health concerns, and other breed characteristics.

Living with an Old English Sheepdog

Old English Sheepdog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Old English Sheepdogs, OES health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Papillon

Papillon owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Papillons, Papillon health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Pekingese

Pekingese owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Pekingeses, Pekingese health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Pembroke Welsh Corgi

Pembroke Welsh Corgi owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Pembroke Welsh Corgis, Pembroke Welsh Corgi health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Pomeranian

Pomeranian owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Pomeranians, Pomeranian health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Poodle

Poodle owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking poodles, poodle health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Portuguese Water Dog

Portuguese Water Dog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Portuguese Water Dogs, Portuguese Water Dog health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Pug

Pug owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Pugs, Pug health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Puli

Puli owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Pulis, Puli health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Redbone Coonhound

Redbone Coonhound owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Redbone Coonhound, Redbone Coonhound health, shedding and other breed characteristics.See submissions

Living with a Rhodesian Ridgeback

Rhodesian Ridgeback owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Rhodesian Ridgebacks, Rhodesian Ridgeback health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Rottweiler

Rottweiler owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Rottweilers, Rottweiler health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Saint Bernard Dog

Saint Bernard owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Saint Bernards, Saint Bernard health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Samoyed

Samoyed owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Samoyeds, Samoyed health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Schipperke

Schipperke owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Schipperkes, Schipperke health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living With a Scottish Deerhound

Scottish Deerhound owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Scottish Deerhounds, Scottish Deerhound health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Scottish Terrier Dog

Scottish Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Scottish Terriers, Scottish Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Shetland Sheepdog

Shetland Sheepdog owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Shetland Sheepdogs, Shetland Sheepdog health, shedding and other Sheltie breed characteristics.

Living with a Shiba Inu

Shiba Inu owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Shiba Inus, Shiba Inu health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Shih Tzu

Shih Tzu owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Shih Tzus, Shih Tzu health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Siberian Husky

Siberian Husky owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Siberian Huskies, Siberian Husky health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living With a Silky Terrier

Silky Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Silky Terriers, Silky Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier

Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers, Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Staffordshire Bull Terrier

Staffordshire Bull Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Staffordshire Bull Terriers, Staffordshire Bull Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics. See submissions

Living with a Sussex Spaniel

Sussex Spaniel owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Sussex Spaniels, Sussex Spaniel health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Tibetan Mastiff

Tibetan Mastiff owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Tibetan Mastiffs, Tibetan Mastiff health, shedding and other breed characteristics.See submissions

Living With a Tibetan Terrier

Tibetan Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Tibetan Terrier, Tibetan Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Vizsla

Vizsla owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Vizslas, Vizsla health, shedding and other breed characteristics.See submissions

Living with a Weimaraner

Weimaraner owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Weimaraners, Weimaraner health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a West Highland White Terrier

West Highland White Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking West Highland White Terriers, West Highland White Terrier health, shedding and other Westie breed characteristics.

Living with a Whippet

Whippet owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Whippets, Whippet health, shedding and other breed characteristics.

Living with a Yorkshire Terrier

Yorkshire Terrier owners describe their pets. Learn about training and housebreaking Yorkshire Terriers, Yorkshire Terrier health, shedding and other breed characteristics.