The loss of a dog is beyond heartbreaking. He was your steadfast companion, she was your exercise buddy, they were your best friends. Give tribute to your beloved dog by submitting a dog memorial. Words cannot truly explain the grief you are feeling, but putting your feelings into words might bring you comfort.

Madison, I can't begin to tell you how much I miss you. It's been 48 hours since you left us and I am beyond heartbroken. Over the years and through all your health issues, I greatly feared the day I... More

Scooby will always be special He would have been 11 years old in January 2012.He saw rabbits, coyotes, lizards, horses, and also got to go to a special beach called dog beach, We also took him to the park nearby wich has hiking t... More

To Zeke, Our Beloved Little Boy Zeke we will never ever forget you, but you know that. You know we will see each other again. You know it. You are happy with God & all the other animals now. You gave us so much love & joy, you were... More

To Rio, May You Rest in Peace in Heaven Rio, you turned out to be the best adoped dog for the remaining 13 years of your life; always faithful and loving. We enjoyed our walks with you and loved how you "spoke" to each one of us in your ow... More

May-day Was Gone Too Soon I love you too, thanks for taking care of me even I've spend with you guys only a month and 26 days. Will be seeing you in heaven again! And hope I did my part to keep you companion and happy, and ho... More

You were such a big part of our lives; we grew up together, from our little apartment, to our new house, through the beginning of our family. We just wish we knew it was going to be then so we could ... More

My heart aches to hold you one more time to have you waiting for me when I come upstairs, to have you laying on the couch watching every move I make to see if it was treat time or bed time. The house... More

Zeus Will be Remembered By All Zeus will be laid to rest under his favorite apple tree he lounged under in the summer. He will be remebered by all. he was big lovable and had the kindest heart any dog could have. He loved everyone... More

Wall-E, Gone Too Soon Wall-E I want you to know that you are the best puppy ever. You were always so sweet and was always there for me when I needed a friend. I bet up there in heaven your playing and having fun just like... More

My sweet little puppy girl. I know without a doubt that you were truly a generous gift from God to our family. I don't know why he chose us but we will forever be grateful. You were my life since my ... More

Thank you Teddie for being my "service" dog; for getting me out of bed every day, twice a day, and for making me take 2 walks and enjoying them. Thank you for making me laugh and forget about my illn... More

We were with Jake at home when he passed. He had been hospitalized the past weekend for breathing problems. We took him home Monday with a handful of prescriptions. While I hoped the medicine would m... More

Meg you are so special,you know me like a book,people cannot understand how we always knew what each other wanted by just looking at each other,you become my hearing dog as I slowly lost my hearing,w... More

I was 11 when we got jimmy, now I am 25, just got home from work and discovered him dead in our back yard....now I am looking at his picture where he is about 5 yrs old, goofing around with that red ... More

I love you and you were the best dog every I'm sorry for having you put to sleep! if you had more life in you.but I could'nt let you suffer you deserved better than that. I will cherish our time toge... More