If you have ever adopted a dog, then you know what a beautiful thing dog adoption can be. There are millions of pets in shelters and rescues waiting for forever homes. By adopting a dog, you can help homeless pets and set a great example for others. If you are thinking of adopting a dog, perhaps you can learn from others who have experienced it.



Do you have a great dog adoption story? Is your adopted dog amazing and worthy of recognition? Tell your story and show off your wonder-dog by creating your very own article about your adopted dog.

While visiting our local rescue centre looking for a small dog the staff asked if I would like to see Flick I said sure why not, but said I didn't want a big dog because of my illness I needed a dog … More

When I first saw her I thought she's much larger than I had in mind but her sweet personality and eager to please attitude won me over. Dakota probably would not have been adopted from the shelter an… More

My little dog Taco, had to be put to sleep, I needed to acquire another little dog, my son and I went to a shelter to see if I could get another Chiuaha? but we saw Patchalee, sitting alone, quiet, a… More

We hosted at a campground September-October. When we got there, there was a dog running loose in the park, known as the dog with the red collar. If she couldn't find any food there she would cross a … More

For Love Of Our Little Molly Molly had been fostered in a home by a women committed to saving and helping needy dogs. We had been told someone had Molly before us but she was returned. Which is sad. Molly, when she came to us, w… More

Adopted her 2/21/09 and lost her about 10 miles from my home at a park & ride about 2 hours later. She was so afraid of people that when we got out of the car to pee she slipped her collar and was go… More

I was looking for a lurcher and Tom stole my heart, he was in a bad way , underweight and a few injuries but he was so trusting on our first meet I just knew he was the hound for us , Tom chose Bella… More

Stewie belonged to a very chronically sick older woman for many years and kept her company. She was bed-bound most of the time and he rarely got exercise or playtime. After 9 years with her she passe… More

Deshy was a 3 year old owner surrender who was turned in with one of her puppies when her previous owners were moving away and couldn't take them with them. Her puppy got adopted almost right away.I … More

Her favourite hobby is... sleeping. She snores like a walrus. When my mum and I have to go places she howls the house down. Every time we come home she flops around the house and I LOVE HER SO MUCH!!… More

I searched the site, and saw his picture and knew that he was for us!! We went to the shelter this morning, took him outside to meet him and he loved us!!!He is 2 1/2 yrs old....it is fine to adopt o… More

Chance Always Puts a Smile on My Face I have always adopted dogs from rescue groups or the "pound". After I put my dalmatian mixed breed down, my other dog (a female catahoula, also a rescue dog) was seriously depressed. I searched on Pe… More

Our 15yr old cat, Scully, passed away last Jan. Her little bro, Oscar then 2, became depressed. We saw the ad at Petsmart about their adoption day on Val day, we were the first people there! We were … More

I found Cody when I went to a small breed rescue to look at another dog they had. Cody would not leave me alone & demanded that I choose him. So I did. On the way home, I swear he even told me his na… More