More than just "feed the dog daily", having a pet of any sort is a responsibility. With this subject we'll tackle the day-to-day care that a dog needs, as well as season specific needs.

Cold Weather Tips for Dogs

Weather changes affect us all, even our fur-encased dogs. You might think that that nice warm coat of fur is sufficient to keep the chill off, but it really is not. Add in the overall atmospheric changes, the storms, and of course: the ice and snow, and your dog has a lot to deal with, especially if he's more often outside than in! ollow these guidelines for making your dog's winter as comfortabl… Weather changes affect us all, even our fur-encased dogs. You might think that that nice warm coat of fur is sufficient to keep the chill off, but it really is not. Add in the overall atmospheric changes, the storms, and of course: the ice and snow, and your dog has a lot to deal with, especially if he's more often outside than in! ollow these guidelines for making your dog's winter as comfortabl…

Your Puppy: 8 Weeks to 18 Months of Behavior, Nutrition, Health and Training

Everything you need to know about your new puppy's first six months in your home. How he'll behave, what you should feed him, what he needs to learn, and how to prevent and treat health problems. Everything you need to know about your new puppy's first six months in your home. How he'll behave, what you should feed him, what he needs to learn, and how to prevent and treat health problems.

Basic Dental Care for Healthy Teeth 

I have a grinning dog. He grins at visitors, he grins at the kids, and he especially likes to grin when he sees dinner coming. Since Raider likes to show off his teeth so much, I try to keep them as white as possible (a yellow grin just doesn't get the same reaction as a bright white one). I have a grinning dog. He grins at visitors, he grins at the kids, and he especially likes to grin when he sees dinner coming. Since Raider likes to show off his teeth so much, I try to keep them as white as possible (a yellow grin just doesn't get the same reaction as a bright white one).

Your Dog's Bizarre Eating Habits and What to do About Them

Does he eat too fast, scarfing his food without really chewing? Is she picking her food up bit by bit and eating it smewhere else? The weird eating habits of our dogs and which ones could be dangerous. Does he eat too fast, scarfing his food without really chewing? Is she picking her food up bit by bit and eating it smewhere else? The weird eating habits of our dogs and which ones could be dangerous.

Neuter and Spay : For their Health

Pet overpopulation is one of the greatest reasons to have all your pets sterilized, but did you know that is not the only reason? Did you know that by having your dog neutered or spayed you can eliminate the risk of serious future health problems as well? Pet overpopulation is one of the greatest reasons to have all your pets sterilized, but did you know that is not the only reason? Did you know that by having your dog neutered or spayed you can eliminate the risk of serious future health problems as well?

My Dog is Missing!

We all hope that this is something we never have to say, but if the worst happens, here's some steps you can take to help bring her back home again as soon as possible. If your dog is gone now and you are looking for help, check these pages, along with the printable checklist to help you out when your emotions are a-tangle. We all hope that this is something we never have to say, but if the worst happens, here's some steps you can take to help bring her back home again as soon as possible. If your dog is gone now and you are looking for help, check these pages, along with the printable checklist to help you out when your emotions are a-tangle.

Free Range Dogs 

Free-range dogs represent a lot of trouble. They scare children and other adults who are unable to tell if the dog is friendly or aggressive, they fight with other dogs who may be secured in their own yards, but that does not prevent the loose dog from entering. Free-range dogs represent a lot of trouble. They scare children and other adults who are unable to tell if the dog is friendly or aggressive, they fight with other dogs who may be secured in their own yards, but that does not prevent the loose dog from entering.

Got Skunk?

Has your best buddy been tango-ing with a striped friend lately? Is he smelling a little ripe? Here are four, tried and true recipes for removing the skunk smell from your dog's fur. Has your best buddy been tango-ing with a striped friend lately? Is he smelling a little ripe? Here are four, tried and true recipes for removing the skunk smell from your dog's fur.

Christmas Safety Tips for Curious Dogs

We want your entire family to have the safest, happiest Christmas season possible. With the help of the folks over at the Dogs Forum, we present to you, a collection of Christmas safety tips. We want your entire family to have the safest, happiest Christmas season possible. With the help of the folks over at the Dogs Forum, we present to you, a collection of Christmas safety tips.