A few weeks ago my dog got sick. First, she had a little diarrhea in the afternoon and was quite gassy all day. That night, she vomited several times. The next morning, she had stopped eating and was still vomiting. Of course, I rushed her to the clinic where I work and did lab work, x-rays, etc. By then, she was having having watery, bloody diarrhea. As part of the routine testing we always do, I sent a stool sample to the lab. I was still waiting for those results, but the other test results were pretty normal. Meanwhile, I began some basic treatments to help with the nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.

The next day, my dog started feeling much better. When her stool sample came back, I was surprised to see she had Giardia. I shouldn't have really be surprised though, because we see this a lot in my area. So here I am, worrying that my dog has a GI obstruction or something equally serious. Imagine my relief to hear it was a curable parasite. Don't get me wrong, Giardia is no walk in the park. As you can see, it makes some dogs very, very sick. Fortunately, with treatment, my dog was back to normal in just a few days. I'll never know for sure where my dog picked up this parasite, but I'm so glad we caught it. Giardia is all over the environment, so infection is a real risk for dogs.

Giardia is a protozoan parasite that usually lives in water, but can also be found in soil. This microscopic, one-celled organism infects its host after being ingested. The parasite lives in the host's intestinal tract, causing diarrhea. Giardia can be difficult to diagnose if the proper tests are not run. Though the treatment is a little more involved than treatment for other, more common intestinal parasites, Giardia can be cured. One important thig to know is that humans can get Giardia too, although the chance of you getting it from your dog is rare. As a dog owner, it's a good idea to educate yourself about the Giardia parasite now so you will be prepared if you or your dog is exposed.

Has your dog ever had the Giardia parasite? Tell us about your experience.