My Dog's Name, Age and Breed/Mix My dog is Sarge. Sarge is our rescue dog. He came into our lives 5 years ago at the age of 15. He was from a major puppy mill, blind, toothless, frail, atrophied legs, heart condition... poor ol' guy had it all. But, we took him in on Valentines day.

What We Did On Valentines day, 5 years ago, we took in Sarge. At 15, and from a puppy mill, he had many medical hurdles. Toothless, blind, frail, heart issues, unable to be mobile in a stable way, we could not walk away. My husband and I had to rescue this dog so that when it was his time to leave the Earth, he know that humans could be trusted. It took almost 3 years for him to fully trust us. He is much more frail now, but still has fight left in himself. He wants to live, and fights all of the uphill battles to stay with us.

How We Did It We have been able to help Sarge by EXCELLENT medical care given by Maple Hills Vet Hospital in Allentown, PA. www.maplehillsvet.com With the expert help of Dr. Abbey Banzhof and her father, Dr. Ken Banzhof, and 2 Vet nurses... Hillary and Bethany, they have given and spent hours in ICU, many times, saving him, loving him, helping him, and allowing us more time to spend with this wonderful pug. We have moved this year to Houston... the excellent care has continued with the devoted help of Dr. Jeff Chalkley of Westbury Animal Hospital. www.westburyvets.com. Without round the clock ICU, Sarge would not be able to overcome his downturns that happen from time to time.

I have learned that the senior dogs often teach us many lessons about ourselves. They teach us that pets and well as people are often misused, abused, and toss by the wayside when no longer needed. The lesson, mankind can be trusted! There are many members of the human race that are kind, loving, and care about the well being of all living things on the Earth. There are those that never give up, but continue to fight the battle with those in need. We have learned that we each have the capacity within ourselves if we just look. Reaching out to this little pug has brought many levels of enrichment & perseverance.