My Dog's Name, Age and Breed/Mix Annabelle, a Tri-colored Sheltie was a therapy dog for over 15 years most often visiting University of Kentucky Children's Hospital for her mission, rode the staff bus and also worked out of my office. In February, at 17, she was laid to rest. Many of us still miss her personal therapy.

What We Did Annabelle often went to visit friends who had lost pets and provided her loving manner to them in their time of grief. Her career began when we saw she loved children and gravitated to them. She visited UK Children's Hospital weekly, participated in children's sermons, roamed the rooms in day care, and guarded the grand children. The physicians in the ICU encouraged Annabelle to come in even when they were making rounds. “No you come on in here, he needs to see Annabelle and I can come any time.” Staff recognized the need to bring normal experiences to children who were not in a normal environment.

How We Did It Some of the treasured visits were with cystic fibrous patients. Sisters, four and five years old sat on the floor, combed and styled her hair forgetting why they were in the hospital. We saw them often and years later we visited when the oldest could no longer respond. Annabelle brought a welcomed distraction to these children who frequently die young. It was said, “Where but Children’s Hospital can you sit on the floor with an IV running into your arm and play with a dog? Or nuzzle your nose in the soft fur of a dog in your bed?” Annabelle followed all UK Hospital protocol. She participated in Hospital Orientation and showed new employees how UK offers care in a language the patients understand. She gave out “calling cards” to explain her personal mission, printed in English and Spanish, and learned to say “good bye” in different languages.

Children need multiple experiences and multiple ways of learning. On a visit to Children’s we visited a three month old girl, hospitalized since birth, and who had not been outside the hospital. Nurses put a towel beside the child because as they said “we want her to experience life as much as she can.” With the respirator operating on the right side and Annabelle laying on the left, the nurses guided the child’s hand through Annabelle’s long fur for several minutes. A few weeks later we asked to visit the child. But she had died; the nurses were thankful they had given her this experience.

Annabelle's story brought tears to my eyes. I'm so glad you shared this inspiring story with us. Thank you Jane.