Like many other cat lovers, I enjoy creative projects involving cats. My particular favorites are cat quilts, drawing and painting pictures of my cats and cross-stitch. Fortunately, About.com has experts in all these fields. The photo above was shared with me by Janet Wickell, our Expert to Quilting, and I've featured other quilts from her website from time to time.

My Jaspurr has had diarrhea problems for well over a month, though Giardia has been ruled out twice. Lately though, I'd noticed lying near the litter box and elsewhere on the carpet, small pieces of poop which took on the shape of cats anal glands. I couldn't help but mention anal gland impaction as a possible connectiion to his diarrhea. A cat's anal glands are one of his/her most effective means of communication, but like other organs, they are sometimes subject to problems. A regular check of your cat's body from head to toe can often detect potential problems before they become emergencies. Jaspurr's veterinarian examined his butt end thorougly, and since the anal sacs were full, she cleaned them out. He feels much better, I'm sure, but the diarrhea mystery has yet to be resolved. We'll presently working on his diet right now, and he has received a few cans of I/D for starters.

After reading Lucy's amazing story, it was impossible for me to bypass her for the Cat Picture of the Week distinction. Lucy's adoption by Magdalena was a bit of serendipity that some movies are made of. Lucy had survived a huge fire, and a friend of Magdalena's had decided to foster her until a permanent home could be found. However, her allergies quashed that idea, so Magdalena agreed to be a surrogate foster for her friend, although she had never had a cat before. You've seen Lucy's photo, and her personality is every bit as winning as her beauty. Read more of Lucy's story and learn how you can submit your own tuxedo cat's photos and story.

Figuring out cat behavior can be a real puzzle, sometimes. Cat Behavior 101 was created to help cat caregivers understand why cats do not always behave the way we expect them to, and to help them change those practices to more acceptable behavior. Behavioral problems in cats, such as avoiding the litterbox, excessive meowing and other attention-seeking behavior, biting and painful or destructive scratching can be corrected by first eliminating physical causes, then initiating a program of gradual retraining, with the help of these resources. Remember that there are no bad cats, only uninformed cat caregivers.