From kittenhood to their geriatric years, cats can grow, develop, even thrive when given caring, responsible care. Are you a first time caregiver for a cat or kitten? Do you have an older cat with new health problems? Perhaps you have recently rescued a stray pregnant cat. Here is help in midwifing the birth of kittens, caring for kittens and growing cats, and nurturing cats in their senior years.

Getting a cat for the first time involves a lot more than just picking one out. Cats are not necessarily the self-sufficient creatures some people think, and you need to take several details into consideration before making the monumental move of sharing your home with a cat.

Whether your female cat slipped out and the result is an "oops" litter, or a pregnant cat presented herself (or was dumped) at your door, you may need help with managing her pregnancy. This section covers the gamut of reproduction in cats, from the act of mating to helping with the birthing process and even help in finding permanent homes for the resultant kittens.

With these articles, I've given you all the tools you need to ensure that your kitten gets the very best care you can give her. From birth to one year, you will learn how to groom her, feed her, and play with her. All of these activities are bonding experiences, and your reward will be a lifetime of devoted companionship with your cat.

Although some breeds of cats, such as Maine Coons, do not reach "adulthood" until after two or more years, most cats can be considered adults after one year. By now you will know your cat's basic personality, his likes and dislikes. (Believe me, he'll let you know.) Bonding continues to be important, and your continued good care will strengthen your cat's trust in you, which is vital to your relationship.

Much like human senior citizens, geriatric cats need a bit more attention and help from their caretakers in order to enjoy the quality of life they deserve.

"You are what you eat" is just as applicable to cats as to humans. I firmly believe that next to regular veterinary care, nutrition is the most important facet of a healthy, long life for cats. Tools are provided here for learning to read and understand cat food labels, along with articles, cat food reviews, and my suggestions for the best cat foods.

The world of cats is a fascinating study in history, and it is no wonder that people flock to cat shows to see an infinite variety of cat breeds. Learn more about the profiles and history of cat breeds, as well as the role of genetics in color patterns.

If you are like most other cat lovers, you consider your cat as a member of your family and already have developed a deep bond.

Bonding with another being, whether human or four-legged, soon evolves into a tapestry of intertwining souls. The unique bond between cats and humans is awesome to behold and even more incredible to experience. You may even be coping with cat allergies, but your cat's companionship is something you don't want to give up. There's help here, too, for that, so don't be discouraged.