The all-important first six weeks in a cat's life will do much in determining his personality and character for the rest of his life. (Yes, cats have character. Ask anyone who is owned by one.) Healthwise, this period is also extremely important to the developing kitten, as very young kittens are susceptible to a number of threats, such as fleas and URIs, which combined with other problems can lead to Fading Kitten Syndrom , a serious and often fatal condition. FKS, as it is often caused, is more often found with litters of stray and feral cats, so if you are in a kitten foster situation, those kittens should be kept away from other cats in the home until they have all been checked clear of communicable disease.

Kittens will probably never grow again at the remarkable rate they accomplish during this period, and seeing the changes in their development from week to week is an incredible experience. We'll start off by recapping the first week, and move on from there.

Although during the first week of a kitten's life he will be concentrating on feeding and growth, (he will double his birth weight this week) other physical changes are taking place which will become more apparent soon, so hold onto your hat!

Socialization skills continue, and there is no doubt that these are lively, active, KITTENS who will grow up all too soon to be adult cats. They can run, pounce, and leap, and can entertain themselves and their human observers endlessly. Just as quickly they can fall asleep at the drop of a hat, (growing up is hard work), so take care not to let them tire.

Kittens will follow their mother cat's lead in socializing with humans. If she has a comfortable relationship with the humans in her life, so will her kittens. However, if kittens are not accustomed to human handling by six weeks, it will be a long, slow, process to train them later, and such a cat may never be a "lap cat."

For this reason, feral cat rescuers, if faced with a pregnant feral or a very young litter, will separate the litter from the mother (after spaying her) before six weeks for optimal results in socializing the kittens for new homes.

For our purposes, however, the litter of kittens we are tracking live with the mother cat in a family setting. Socializing a kitten at this age will make all the difference in the world to his personality and interaction with humans as adult cats. Socializing Tip:

Kittens should learn at this age that hands are not for playing - hands are for holding, petting, and feeding. One of the best "toys" for teaching this lesson is a plastic drinking straw. You can drag it across the floor and watch the kitten chase it, then wiggle it a bit and allow him to pounce on it and "capture" it. The baby may proudly strut with his prize before settling down to bite on it. The plastic is nice and crunchy, and makes a good aid for teething, as well.

Well-socialized and completely weaned kittens may be ready for their new forever homes in just a couple of weeks. If you've been waiting for your kittens to be old enough to adopt, you'll probably be pretty excited by now.

Patience, though. Remember, "All good things come to those who wait."