Behavioral problems in cats, such as missing the litterbox, excessive meowing, or destructive scratching can be corrected by first eliminating physical causes, then instituting a program of informed retraining, with the help of these resources.

Cat Bites and Abscesses

Delaying vet care of a cat bite wound can cost you big bucks.

Cats Top Pet Peeves

If your kitty's happiness quotient is dropping lately, perhaps your own conduct needs to improve. Learn more about your cat's pet peeves and how you can help make him happier.

The Feline Personality

Cats' seeming independence is one of the personality traits that attracts many people to cats. But are all cats independent, or is any one cat independent at all times? Learn more with this article.

"Cat Daddy," by Jackson Galaxy - Book Review

Jackson Galaxy, known for his Animal Planet show, 'My Cat From Hell,' shares private parts of his personal life, the cat who saved him (and whom he saved), and loads of helpful tips for tackling cats' behavior challenges. Read a review of "Cat Daddy," Galaxy's lastest book.

Cat Behavior 101

Behavioral problems in cats, such as avoiding the litterbox, excessive meowing and other attention-seeking behavior, biting and painful or destructive scratching can be corrected by first eliminating physical causes, then instituting a program of gradual retraining, with the help of these resources. Remember that there are no bad cats, only uninformed cat caregivers.

Cats Body Language - a Picture Tour

There is lots to learn about cat behavior if we closely observe our cats' body language.

Cat Training - How, Why, and When to Train a Cat



Cat Training should not be a secret tool of cat behaviorists. In fact, cat training can be learned and practiced at home, given enough motivation for both you and the cat. You are motivated to train a cat because of destructive, or dangerous cat behavior. Your job is to motivate the cat so that cat training will be effective and in many cases, a rewarding experience.

Share Your Cat's Weirdest Behavior Habit

You are invited to share your cat's cute or unusual habits with other readers. Does he "chase rabbits" while dreaming, burrow under blankets, or try to open doors? Use as much space as available to describe the behavior as completely as possible You may contribute more than one behavior habit, but please use a new form for each of them.

Cats - When Discipline is Necessary

Cats are highly intelligent creatures who need little training or disclipline to 'behave' the way their humans think they should behave. Learn how to separate undesirable behavior from communication of a cat's dissatisfaction, and how to correctly discipline a cat if indeed, a behavior problem exists.

Do Cats Cry Real Tears - Share your experience with crying cats with ...

I used to believe that cats' eyes only watered for medical reasons. However, after the phenomenal response I've had from readers who have seen cat cry for apparent reasons of pain, sorrow, loneliness, or frustration, I'm willing to include that there are indeed occasions of cats crying because of emotions. Have you seen a cat cry real tears? Read the associated article, then share your story with...

Ask Amy: Loud Meowing Cats

Learn how to stop loud yowling cats. Deaf cats' loud meowing can be managed with these tips from Amy Shojai, CABC, for About.com.

Cats Integration Success Story

Integrating a new cat into a household with existing cats often takes time and patience. This cat lover proved that even in the most hopeless situations, cats can eventually become friends. Sometimes it will happen in the most unlikely situation, such as a move to a new home.

Attention Seeking Behavior in Cats

Attention-seeking behavior and excessive vocalization often go hand-in-hand with cats. Causes for these behaviors can be either physical or emotional, or both. Before punishing your cat for excessive crying and meowing, or other attention seeking behavior, do some homework on possible causes.

Whose House Is This, Anyway - Territorial Battles with Cats

Having a problem with stray cats in your garden? Cats peeing in the wrong place? Here are deterrents to keep cats out of private places.

Diary of a Stray Cat's Integration into a Family of Male Cats

I first met Jenny in the early Spring of 2007. She was one of several stray cats who were living rough on the street where I live. Still just a kitten, she was shy at first, but when she found a safe place to eat, and friendly human companionship, she soon made herself at home on our deck. Follow the step-by-step integration diary of a street-wise female cat into an established hierarchy ...

Have you had success solving a cat behavioral problem - share your pr...

Cat behavioral problems run a wide gamut. Some undesirable behaviors are only annoying, such as excessive meowing, while others, such as chewing on electrical cords are downright dangerous. Still others, such as peeing outside the box, may be a sign of a serious illness. Curing a behavior problem requires thinking like a cat. What is your cat...

Scruff a Cat

Scruffing is one of the best ways of discouraging undesirable behavior in cats, as it is one of the ways mother cats discipline their kittens. Learn how to scruff your cat to train him properly.

In a previous FAQ, I replied to a reader who asked if cats cry real tears. My initial response was in the negative, citing various medical reasons for cats' eyes to water.

After I posted this FAQ to my blog, the stories started coming in. Although I have still seen no medical evidence proving cats can cry from fear, pain, or...

Please Help With Litter Box Problem

A reader has a problem with sudden litter box avoidance after a roommate left, leaving the cat home alone during the day. Read my answer to this FAQ.

Tool-Using Cat - Guest Article

While cats are considered intelligent, their use of tools has rarely been discussed. Meet Sasha, a cat who used observation and reasoning to develop a tool for making her dry food more palatable. Guest article by J. Justin Lancaster, Ph.D.

Why cats lick their front foot after eating - Behavior FAQ

Did you ever wonder why cats wash their front feet after eating, even though their feet did not touch the food? Learn more with this behavioral FAQ.

New Declawed Cat is Overly Aggressive

We adopted Allie, a 2 yr old spayed female(who was declawed by a previous owner) in July. As expected the two females didn't hit it off. There was alot of hissing and spitting between the females, but recently Allie has become increasingly aggressive towards Emma. Allie is a bigger cat, and she corners and stalks Emma, and it continues to get worse and more intense between them.

Books on Cat Behavior - Top Picks

Cats are mysterious creatures and sometimes their behavior stymies us. Professional feline behaviorists have helped us, and at least one book on cat behavior is a must in the library of every cat lover. These are my favorite books on cat behavior.

Scoop and Snuggle - Warming up an Aloof Cat

Colleen Patrick's third guest article for About Cats offers a cozy, loving, fun way to teach your stand-offish cat how to cuddle. You'll love it and so will Spike.

Top Commercial Cat Deterrents

Sometimes homemade methods simply don't work when trying to deter a cat from activities with potential hazards. These commercial cat deterrents will help keep your cat safe; others will keep stray cats out of your yard.

Why Does My Cat...??

Simple answers to some very complex behavioral problems.

Cici - The Cat That Came A Calling - Guest Article

Meet Cici, an extremely intelligent cat who has learned the art of door-knocking and toilet-flushing. A guest article for cats.about.com.

Scratching Below the Surface - Guest Article by C.H.U.

Guest writer C.H.U. believes cats sometimes scratch as a means of communication. Dubious? It may not be as crazy as it sounds. Remember, cats *are* able to reason and think. Spike may be trying to tell you something.