Pictures of pedigreed (aka "purebred") cats are a good way to learn more about those breeds. These breed picture albums include photos submitted by both breeders, breed rescue people, and purebred pet owners. It is an ongoing project and new albums will be added as purebred cat photos are received.

Cat Breed Picture Galleries

Pictures of pedigreed (aka 'purebred') cats are a good way to learn more about those breeds. These breed picture albums include photos submitted by both breeders, breed rescue people, and purebred pet owners.

Ragdoll Cats Picture Gallery

Ragdolls are said to have been named for their proclivity to relax entirely when held. The Ragdoll adores its humans and would generally prefer to be wherever you are. Don't be surprised to have a Ragdoll shadow as you go from room to room, talking to you in her sweet musical voice. I hope you'll enjoy this photo gallery of lovely Ragdoll cats, submitted by readers.

Birman Cats Picture Gallery

The Birman cat is believed to have originated in Burma, and brought to France around 1919. Birmans have a great personality and will fit easily into most lifestyles; they are active and playful, but will also entertain themselves quietly if you are too busy to play with them.

Persian Cats Picture Gallery

In the late 19th century, North America discovered the Persian cat, and it soon reached the zenith of being the most popular cat in the United States, an honor it still holds today. Enjoy these photos of lovely Persian cats, provided by their owners.

Maine Coon Cat Picture Gallery

Equally at home with children, dogs, or older persons, the Maine Coon is an ideal pet, handily earning its status as the second most popular breed in America, as well as it's fond nickname, "The Gentle Giant." Who can resist? Once you've cast your eyes on the beauty of a Maine Coon, you may never look at cats the same way again. Enjoy this...

Siamese Cats Picture Gallery

Siamese remain high in popularity for people looking for a pedigreed pet. Whether your tastes run from the Traditional to the modern version of the Siamese, these pictures represent exotic looking Meezers in all their glory.

Assorted Cat Breeds Picture Gallery

The Assorted Breed Gallery is also featured in the September Cats Calendar Picture Album.

Bengal Cat Gallery

The Bengal cat combines the exotic look and feel of the small forest-dwelling wild cats they descend from with the dependability and loving temperament of the domestic cat. For a walk on the wild side with an affectionate companion, you can't go wrong with a Bengal. Enjoy these pictures of exotic Bengal cats, courtesy of their human companions.