Some cat lovers' idea of great content is pictures of cats, cute kitten pictures, kitty photo albums, or picture galleries of cats. These pages are an eyefeast of exactly that: Just one kitty picture after another, including cat breed picture galleries, cat pictures sorted by color, kitten photos, and much more.

Black Cats Picture Gallery 3

During one period in history, black cats were considered witches' familiars, which resulted in certain superstitions about black cats. Logically, Halloween brings up images of black cats, therefore we celebrate Black Cat Month will a celebration of black cat pictures.

Cat Olympics Show and Tell Gallery

While human Olympic events take place every two years, alternating between summer and winter, the Cat Olympics are an ongoing event. You may upload your own photos to the Cat Olympics in a number of categories.See submissions

2012 Cat Pictures of the Week Gallery

For several years now, About.com Cats has featured a Cat Picture of the Week, and this year is no exception. Photos are chosen from submittals to any of the *other* picture galleries on this site (most often from the featured gallery of the month). My criteria is the quality of the photo, and the care in presenting the "story" behind the cat.

2012 Cat Pictures of the Week Gallery

For several years now, About.com Cats has featured a Cat Picture of the Week, and this year is no exception. Photos are chosen from submittals to any of the *other* picture galleries on this site (most often from the featured gallery of the month). My criteria is the quality of the photo, and the care in presenting the "story" behind the cat.

Cool Cat Pictures of the Week

Each week I select a new Cool Cat Picture of the Week from any of the Show and Tell features on my web site. They might be funny cats, sweet cats, cute kittens, or any other cat picture that strikes my fancy.

Black Cat Month: October, Black Cats, and Halloween

In some circles, black cats and Halloween are almost synonymous, and I prefer to refer to October as Black Cat Month, for that reason. Learn more about the mystery of black cats, and their relationship to Halloween, with these articles.

Cats of the World Picture Gallery

We honor cats of the world here, to embrace both their differences and their similarities. Cat lovers who live outside North America were encouraged to share their cats' stories in a Cats of the World Show and Tell feature. This picture gallery shows their full-sized pictures and brief synopses of their stories.

80 Ways to Share Cat Pictures

Did you know that there are 80 ways to show off your cat pictures to other readers? Take a look at the types of cat pictures listed below, then submit to one or more of the listed cat picture show and tell galleries.

Cats of the World: Cats in Countries Outside North America

Many well-loved cats of the world live outside North America. Though cats in different countries have different life styles, the one thing cats of the world have in common is that they universally love - and are loved by their humans. We honor cats of the world here, to embrace both their differences and their similarities. See submissions

Cat Adoption, Shelter Volunteers, Cat Rescue and Foster

Cat lovers share their personal cat blogs, cat pictures demonstrating cat personality as linked to cat colors and more. Take a look at these cat pictures, then share your own by use of an easy online form.

Pictures of Cats Sharing Holidays

Dedicated cat lovers consider our cats as members of our families, and take cat parenting as seriously as parents of human children. Indeed, for some of us, cats are our only children. Our readers share here pictures and stories of their cat "kids," as well as describing how they became cat parents in the first place.

Pictures of Cats Sharing Holidays

For cat lovers, holidays are always enriched by our cats. Our Show & Tell application makes it easy to share pictures of our holiday cats in holiday picture galleries. Featured here are several of the holidays we share with our cats, including Valentines Day, Christmas, and more .

Silly Sleeper Cats

About.com has made it possible for you to upload your own silly sleeper cat picture to share with our readers, with an easy to use online form. After you've seen other readers photos, submit your own to see if your cat can beat their cats in the silly sleeper CATegory. See submissions

Special Cats Picture Galleries

While every cat picture is special to someone, there are a few categories of cat photo galleries that are extra special. Enjoy these pictures and stories of adopted shelter cats, senior cats, special needs cats, pictures of cats rescued by special people, and picture memorials to some very special cats. Each gallery is created with an online...

Cat Monthly Picture Calendar Guide

Each month one cat color, color pattern, or type, is featured on Cats.About.com. Each week, one cat is selected for the Cat Picture of the week, from the Show and Tell picture gallery of the month. Each gallery includes a form to use to brag about your cat, and a simple upload tool for publishing two photos. You do not have to wait until your...

Funny Cat Pictures

The very best photo ops for cat lovers is when we capture on film or disc a cat in a comical pose or napping in a strange place, such as a cooking pot or the bathroom sink. Enjoy this assembly of funny cat picture galleries, including Container Cats, TV Cats, Office Cats, and more.

2010 Holiday Cats Enjoying the Winter Holiday Season

Readers share pictures of holiday cats enjoying the winter holiday season. You may submit your photos by using an easy online form.

2010 Cat Pictures of the Week Gallery

For several years now, About.com Cats has featured a Cat Picture of the Week, and this year is no exception. Photos are chosen from submittals to any of the *other* picture galleries on this site (most often from the featured gallery of the month). My criteria is the quality of the photo, and the care in presenting the "story" behind the cat.

2010 Tuxedo Cats Picture Gallery

Tuxedo Cats were originally chosen to honor in the May cats photo calendar because they reminded me of the elegant attire worn to spring proms. Of course, females may also wear tuxedos. Ehjoy these photos of handsome tuxedo cats, then submit your own cat pictures.

2010 Cat Pictures of the Week Gallery

For several years now, About.com Cats has featured a Cat Picture of the Week, and this year is no exception. Photos are chosen from submittals to any of the *other* picture galleries on this site (most often from the featured gallery of the month). My criteria is the quality of the photo, and the care in presenting the "story" behind the cat.

Cat Hobbies and Pastimes Picture Gallery

In "Ways to Enjoy Cats Without Having One, I suggested several hobbies, crafts, and volunteer activities that anyone who loves cats can do, whether or not they live with a cat.Several cat-lovers responded to my request for photos depicting their own cat-related hobbies and pastimes. The result is this photo gallery. Feel free to submit your...

2010 January Cats Picture Gallery

As 2010 is a transitional year, the 2010 January Cats Picture Gallery is also transitional. We are changing the focus from blue cats to senior cats. As the old year is cast aside for the baby new year, senior cats have often been cast aside at shelters, to make room for the new crops of kittens. As we start the beginning of a new year, it's...

Funniest Cat Picture

Almost nothing is as amusing to a cat lover than a funny picture of a cat. I don't know of any cat who sets out to be funny. They just somehow manage to do so, by what I call "cats being cats," and a cat trying to be serious can be very funny, indeed. About.com has made it possible for you to upload your own funniest cat photo to share with our readers, with an easy to use online form.

2007 Memorials to Special Cats

Creating a memorial to a cat you have loved and lost is a good way not only to honor your beloved kitty, but also to help you through the grieving process. These memorials speak for themselves of the bond between humans and cats that transcends life itself. This memorial gallery includes photos received in 2007

2009 Cutest Cat Contest Campaign Headquarters - Support your favorite...

The 2009 Cutest Cat Contest is in full swing now, with a poll vote to determine the Readers' Choice from 12 semi-finalists. The poll will start on Sunday, July 19th and end on August 2nd at midnight ET. Here is a chance to campaign for your favorite semi-finalist, whether it is your own cat, a friend's or family member's cat, or you just like its cute looks. Start schmoozing now, but play fair. R...

Cutest Cat Contest Semi-Finalists Picture Gallery

The About.com Cutest Cat Picture Contest is in full swing. The contest entry period has expired, and our panel of judges has selected the 12 semi-finalists. Please help select the Fan Finalist by voting in our first semi-final poll to begin on Sunday, July 19, 2009 . The winner will compete with five Judges Choice for placement in the top six, and the winner of that poll will be the Cutes...

Senior Cats Picture Gallery

If we are very lucky, all of our cats who share our homes will become seniors, and they will share long and happy lives with us. Senior cats are very wise and teach us lessons in acceptance as they stoicly accept their frailties, along with the minstrations of those who love them and are loved by them. This Senior Cats Picture Gallery honors...

Special Needs Cats Picture Gallery

Special Needs Cats have a valid place in the overall scheme of things. They demonstrate the unique ability cats have to overcome what we humans would consider as "disabilities," and handle diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, and FIV with amazing resilience and acceptance; certain lessons we can profit from. This Special Needs Picture Album...

Memorials to Special Cats - Picture Gallery

Creating a memorial to a cat you have loved and lost is a good way not only to honor your beloved kitty, but also to help you through the grieving process. These memorials speak for themselves of the bond between humans and cats that transcends life itself.

Shelter Cat Adoption Success Gallery

Adopting a shelter cat makes a big difference, not only to the cat, who may literally have been on death row, but to your own life. Cats are well-known for giving unconditional love to their human companions, and you'll find your life enriched immeasurably. The stories presented here in our Shelter Cats Adoption Picture Gallery offer a strong case for the adoption of shelter cats.

Cat Rescue Picture Gallery

Thousands of volunteers all over the world dedicate their lives to cat rescue operations, whether it be TNR, feral cat colony management, fostering rescued cats and kittens, or rehoming stray cats. Browse this picture album of rescued cats, including some happy ending stories, and consider if you have what it takes for this rewarding challenge of cat rescue.

Cat Rescue Picture Gallery - Personal Rescues

Cat rescue not only involves organized groups, but also those generous individuals who rescue abandoned, injured, or abused cats and personally adopt them into their own homes. These pictures depict cats whose lives have changed completely in their new forever homes.

2009 Cat of the Week Pictures

Every week this site honors a Cat Picture of the Week, which is posted on the main page each week as well as in this gallery. This gallery contains Cat Pictures of the Week for the year 2009, each chosen from cat pictures submitted for the many different picture albums on this site. I do not accept photos submitted directly for "Cat of the Week"...

Cat Picture of the Week Gallery

The About.com site for Cats has a CatPicture of the Week feature posted on the main page each week. A weekly email Cat of the Week newsletter, which rotates at random through previous Cat of the Week Pictures, also includes pictures of some cats which did not appear on the main page. They are all gathered here together in a new Cat Picture of...

Cutest Cat Contest Picture Gallery

Is your cat the cutest cat in the world? About.com is pleased to announce the Cutest Cat Picture Contest. Please read the rules carefully, then submit your Cutest Cat photo by following these Guidelines.

Cutest Cat Contest Finalists Picture Gallery

The Cutest Cat Contest Semi-Finalist poll has concluded and the Readers' Choice winner has been decided. That cat now joins the five Judges' Choice contenders in a race for the Cutest Cat of 2009 title.

2009 Valentine Cats Picture Gallery

Although our bond with our cats goes on beyond life itself, on Valentine Day, we celebrate our love for them, theirs for us, and for other cats they bond with. These cat-enhanced Valentine cards were sent by our community of readers of the About.com Cats site, and I invite you to enjoy them as I do. You may also submit your own Valentine cat...

2008 Winter Holiday Cats Picture Gallery

Cats generally enjoy holidays, and Christmas and the other Winter holidays are no exception. Enjoy these pictures of cats lounging by (or in) the Christmas tree, enjoying other holiday decorations, and sometimes dressed in Christmas finery. This is a new 2008 Winter Holiday Cats Picture Gallery.

Halloween Cats Picture Gallery

A friend sent me a cute photo of a cat wearing a bonnet from the popular ICanHasCheezburger site. The cat sez, "Hope u dont plan on returning it cause ur blood will leave stains." The few times I've tried to put hats or outfits on my cats, I've gotten the same response.Just out of curiosity, I posted a blog poll on my site and asked my braver...

Cats! Galore Picture Gallery

Leonardo da Vinci said, 'The smallest feline is a masterpiece," and Collette said, 'There are no ordinary cats.' This picture gallery of cats proves both of those homilies, confirming that "A Picture is Worth a Thousand Words."

2008 Cat Olympics

Cats all over the world have been perfecting their skills at Cat Olympic events, such as Synchronized Sleeping, Power Yawning, Sumo Wrestling, and Broad Jumps. Unlike human Olympics, which are of a short duration, the 2008 Cat Olympics will continue through the end of the year. New entries are welcome. Go for the (cat) gold and enter your feline...

Wordless Wednesday Cat Pictures

Wordless Wednesday is sort of a social networking idea started by the Wordless Wednesday web site. Under the premise that 'a picture is worth a thousand words,' that's exactly what participants try to do. These are the archived photos of my own Wordless Wednesday offering.

Kids and Cats Picture Gallery

Kids who are taught early-on to love and respect cats will grow up to be responsible adults who will make a difference in the animal kingdom. These pictures show kids making a head start, and their love for cats is evident in every photo. We're not only showing girls, either. It's time for the old stereotype of "a boy with his dog" to move over and make room for "a young man and his cat," as some...

Cats' Special Spots Picture Gallery

While we love our cats from head to toe to tail tip, most of us have a favorite spot on our cat that is so endearing we want to kiss it every time we see it. Join with us in oooohing and awwwwing over these photos of our cats' special spots.

Longhair Cats Picture Gallery

Longhaired cats are prized for the beauty of their coats - long and glossy, fluffy, or thick and rich. Longhair breeds include the popular Maine Coon, Ragdoll, Persian, Siberian, and Somali. Although grooming a longhair cat can be time-consuming, many cat lovers find the extra work well worth the time, when their friends oooh and ahhh over the beauty of their cats.

2008 Cat Picture of the Week Gallery

The About.com Cats site has a Cat Picture of the Week feature posted on the main page each week. This gallery is starting fresh for the year 2008, and my intent is to post subsequent galleries each year. Other Cat of the Week galleries are linked here. I do not accept photos submitted directly for "Cat of the Week" pages. Instead, they are...

Readers' Cat Collectibles Picture Gallery

Cat collectibles are the finishing touch for homes that revolved around their resident cats. Almost nothing is more exciting to a cat lover than finding a new and unique object of art to add to his or her cat collectibles display. These pictures of cat collectibles were submitted to readers of cats.about.com, and represent the love these people have for their own cats. Enjoy this photo gallery of Readers' Cat Collectibles.

Cat Collectibles Picture Gallery

Confirmed cat lovers are inclined to surround themselves, not only with their furry feline friends, but their homes are often decorated to the max with cat memorabilia. As the About.com Guide to Cats, I am no exception. Over the year I have acquired either by purchase or by gifts from family and friends a plethora of cat figurines, picture frames, quilts, and other wonderful cat collectibles. I hope you enjoy my personal Cat Collectibles Picture Gallery.

Chitter-Chatter Cats Video

View this You Tube Video by Richard Norton of two Bengal cats chattering at a bird outside the window.

Cat Head Theatre Video

Enjoy this creative and amusing video by Naked Rabbit, giving a hilarious rendition of Shakespeare as done by a cat.

Comical Cats Picture Gallery

There is nothing quite so endearing as a cat at its comical best, particularly because they take themselves so very seriously. Whether it be a mighty hunter, a cat overcome by his own curiosity, or a cat sleeping, legs akimbo, in perfect bliss, I think you will agree that comical cats are cats at their best. Enjoy these funny pictures in our Comical Cats Picture Gallery.

The Complete Cat

The inimitable working of the body parts of cats epitomizes the concept of form and function. Let's examine some of those parts that make up the cat.

Cats and Their Pets Picture Gallery

For centuries, cats have been happy to live in harmony with dogs, rabbits, goldfish and other domesticated critters, as these pictures with attest to. However, cat lovers all know that a cat is the sole owner of his or her household and every living being who resides in it. The typical cat will look at the household dog and think "Mine!", which should surprise no one. Enjoy these photos submitted by readers of cats with their "pets."

Christmas Cats Picture Gallery 

Cats generally enjoy holidays, and Christmas and the other Winter holidays are no exception. Enjoy this picture of cats lounging by the Christmas tree, sometimes dressed in Christmas finery. Other Winter holiday cat photos are also most welcome here.

Black Cats Picture Gallery

October has almost always been known as Black Cat Month, and our photo calendar would not be complete without photos of sleek black cats. Here are photos of October cats submitted by About Cats readers for your pleasure. Enjoy the Black Cats Picture Gallery.

Calico Cats Picture Gallery

Calico cats represent the brilliant rainbow of colors in a sunny July day. Of all cat color patterns, Calicos are perhaps the loveliest with their tri-colored exuberance. Although most Calicos are females because of genetics, the rare male does sometimes pop up, as you will see in this cats picture album.

Just Kittens Picture Gallery

Everybody loves kittens, and kitten lovers particularly enjoy looking at pictures of kittens. Enjoy these reader-submitted photos of kittens then submit your own kitten pictures, using the Photo Guidelines. Please use 'Kitten Picture' as the subject of your email.

Two Kittens Picture Gallery

If you are thinking about getting a kitten, you should know that two kittens are better than one, for a number of reasons. Enjoy these photos submitted by readers of their own living proof that two kittens are better than one, then submit photos of your own two kittens.

Kitten Diary

Ev Russel, of Kinross Folds, shares the progress of a litter of kittens from birth to one month and beyond. Enjoy this illustrated Kitten Diary and watch these kittens grow.

Tabby Cats Picture Gallery

March marks the first month of Spring, when the earth is rich with promises of things to be. Tabby cats are almost as old as Mother earth herself, and are the epitome of Catness in all its wonder and glory. This month we salute our Tabby Cat friends as the cats for March's Cat Picture Calendar with dozens of pictures of Tabbies.

Tuxedo Cats Picture Gallery

Black and white cats are like snowflakes: you'll never see any two with identical markings, but Tuxedos usually have some form of a white "V" on the chest-- very formal and striking. Our May Cats Picture Calendar is dedicated to Tuxedo cats and other black-and-white cats because... well, just because. Maybe for the Spring Prom tuxedos, although I'm sure my readers can figure out some better justifications. Enjoy these pictures of striking tuxedo cats.

Polydactyl Cats Picture Gallery

Whether called "polydactyls," "Hemingway Cats," or "Mittens," these many-toed cats warm the hearts and hearths of those people fortunate to share a home with one. The extra toes on polydactyl cats produce very wide feet which have been variously described as resembling "paddles," "snowshoes," or "waffles," when they walk You'll appreciate those descriptions when you see these pictures of polydactyl kitties submitted by readers of About.cats.

Cats Watching TV

Indoor cats sometimes become bored, and television can often be entertaining to them, if the program material is cat-approved. Wildlife programs are a favorite, but the coming trend is 'kitty' TV - DVDs and video tapes made with cats' entertainment in mind. Do your cats watch TV? Enjoy this picture gallery of "couch potato cats" watching TV and then submit your own pictures.

Office Cats Picture Gallery

Those of us who spend a lot of time on computers often have one or more office cats as assistants. We become proficient at dragging a 15 pound cat around with the mouse or peering around a paw on the monitor. Some of our helpers have even given new meaning to 'CAT scan.' Whatever their area of expertise, these office cat pictures provide proof that cats make great office assistants.

Top Cat Picture Album Favorites

Some cat lovers' idea of great content is pictures of cats, cute kitten pictures, kitty photo albums, or picture galleries of cats. These pages are an eyefeast of exactly that: Just one kitty picture after another, including breed picture galleries, cat pictures sorted by color, kitten photos, and much more.

Cats Being Cats Picture Gallery

Cats are at their very best when they are simply being themselves. Enjoy this picture gallery of cats being cats, all sent by readers of cats.about.com.

Cat Olympics: Picture Gallery of Kitty Olympic Events

While human Olympics are held only in summer or winter, and are only held every two years, Cat Olympics sports are held year-round, every year. Join us in this fun and exciting picture gallery of Cat Olympics, featuring special events, such as Mouse Hockey, Power Sleeping, Synchronized Sleeping, Bird Watching, Relay Drinking, Compulsory...

Cat of the Week Email Newsletter

Each week, you'll receive a selection of the best entries from our online Photo Gallery, delivered directly to your mailbox. You'll meet cunning kittens, popular tabby cats, rare and exotic purebred cats, black cats, calico cats, everything but green cats!

Top Picks - Products for Displaying Cat Pictures

There is no pride quite so personal as the pride of a cat lover over his or her cats, and no better way to share that pride than with pictures. You can always spot a true cat lover by the number of cat pictures displayed in her home, and these products provide everything needed to make the most of those cat photo displays.

Most Unforgettable Shelter Cat Contest

In honor of Adopt-a-Cat Month, we'll be celebrating throughout June 2010 with a photo contest. I'll be looking for the most unforgettable cat adopted from a shelter or rescue. Entries will be accepted through the end of June. Please include a valid email address for notification purposes, as there will be several runoff polls which might include your cat. Check out the other contestants, then ent... See submissions

Cutest Kitten Photo Contest

ALL kittens are cute, each in their own way. Do you have a kitten whose cuteness stands above the crowd? Now's your chance to show off your kitten to other readers by using an easy entry form. Entries will be accepted through the end of July, 2010. Please include a valid email address for notification purposes, as there may be several runoff polls which might include your kitten. Check out the o... See submissions

Wordless Wednesday Cats Show & Tell

Wordless Wednesday is sort of a social networking idea started by the Wordless Wednesday web site. Under the premise that "a picture is worth a thousand words," that's exactly what participants try to do, with eye-catching photos and a short punchy title. If you do not have your own cat blog to display Wordless Wednesday entries, you are invited...See submissions

2010 Wordless Wednesday Picture Gallery

Wordless Wednesday is a social networking idea started by the Wordless Wednesday web site. Under the premise that "a picture is worth a thousand words," that's exactly what participants try to do, with eye-catching photos and a short punchy title. You are invited to submit a Wordless Wednesday photo and caption for possible inclusion in my Weekly Wordless Wednesday blogs, and in this gallery. A s...

Funniest Cat Picture

Cats are noted for their propensity of seeking out places to hide - places not originally intended for cats, such as kitchen sinks, boxes, baskets, slippers, and such.Perhaps they're just looking for a new and interesting place to catnap. Or could it just be a way of saying "gotcha!" to their amazed humans. About.com has made it possible for you to upload your own container cat photo to share with our readers, with an easy to use online form.See submissions