Perhaps more than any other written piece in history,has brought comfort and solace to pet owners trying to cope with the grief of loss of a beloved cat, dog, or other pet. It is almost impossible to read this poem without tears flowing, even after having read it dozens of times, because we all have one or more "Rainbow Kitties and Doggies" we envision there.

The story describes a bucolic place "just this side of heaven," where dogs and cats, bunnies and birds, all live peacefully among the gentle meadows and hills, running and cavorting together in the lush green grass. They are all young again, in perfect health, and want for nothing - except the humans they loved. One by one, they wait for us at the Bridge, and when our time comes their eyes light up in indescribable joy as we join them, to cross the Rainbow Bridge together. Who among us would not find peace and solace from the belief that such a place exists? I surely do, and there is nothing on earth that will convince me otherwise.

The inspiration for the poem is generally acknowledged to come from an ancient Norse legend. Bifrost, the rainbow bridge was a bridge the gods used to travel to and from earth, and where worthy Norse warriors crossed to Valhalla.

A naturally formed Rainbrow Bridge exists in the United State, in southern Utah. It is not surprising that this glorious bridge is held sacred by Native American cultures.

Another Rainbow Bridge legend is told by the Chumash people, who originated on Santa Cruz Island. It is a rather sad story with an uplifting ending involving dolphins.

Lehigh University has received a $300,000 grant from the Henry Luce Foundation for an interdisciplinary and cross-cultural project designed to enhance the university's Asian Studies program while strengthening Lehigh's historical ties with China. The study will include a Chinese Rainbow Bridge Project.

There's no denying that the most famous Rainbow Bridge of all is the one we think of when a beloved pet passes over. The Rainbow Bridge allows us to keep our kitties alive in our hearts for as long as we live, and we do not really dread death because we know we'll be united with them. For almost as long as there has been a World Wide Web, The Rainbow Bridge poem has appeared on dozens, perhaps hundreds of web sites with "author unknown," or "anonymous," as the credit. In fact, if you "Google" "Rainbow Bridge," you'll be rewarded with some 800,000 hits. Some of the more prominent ones are:

Next > Who is the Real Author of The Rainbow Bridge?