These excellent timelines and chronologies provide succinct histories of the century.

History Quizzes

How much do you really know about the 20th century? Take these history quizzes to test your knowledge of history.

History Timeline of the 20th Century

Browse through this history timeline of the 20th century to examine each decade within this amazing century.

Gypsies and the Holocaust Timeline

The Gypsies are one of the forgotten victims of the Holocaust. The Nazis, in their strive to rid the world of undesirables, targeted both Jews and Gypsies for extermination. Follow the path of persecution to mass slaughter in this timeline of what happened to the Gypsies during the Third Reich.

The Major Wars and Conflicts of the 20th Century

A chronological list of the major wars and conflicts of the 20th century.

Rwanda Genocide Timeline

In 1994, the Rwanda Genocide resulted in the deaths of 800,000 Tutsi and Hutu sympathizers. Learn more about the genocide by browsing this Rwanda Genocide timeline, which shows the history of Rwanda from its first European colonization to the end of the genocide.

Titanic Timeline

From the time of its construction, the Titanic was built to be gigantic and luxurious. Follow the history of the Titanic, from its beginnings in a shipyard to its end at the bottom of the sea, in this timeline of the Titanic.

Vietnam War Timeline

Follow the progression of the Vietnam War, from the beginning of French colonization to the dedication of the Vietnam Veteran's Memorial in Washington D.C., in this wonderful timeline of the Vietnam War.

World War I Timeline

World War I (WWI) was sparked by the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in 1914 and ended with the Treaty of Versailles in 1919. Find out what happened in between these momentous events in this WWI timeline.

World War II Timeline

World War II (WWII) was a long and bloody war that lasted for six years. Officially beginning on September 1, 1939 when Germany invaded Poland, World War II lasted until both the Germans and the Japanese had surrendered to the Allies in 1945. Find out what happened in this timeline of World War II.

20th Century History: Year by Year

Infoplease.com offers this fantastic year-by-year and decade-by-decade history (scroll to the middle of the page) of the world during the 20th century.

Black History Timeline

Although this timeline begins in 1517, it focuses on black history of the 19th and 20th centuries, providing important milestones in black history in the United States.

Century in Review

A great timeline for young people, created and written by elementary school students.

General Chronology of Events

A different, yet interesting, timeline of the years 1900 to 1929. Includes events not typically found on the usual timeline.

HistoryTimeline.com

A decade-by-decade history of the United States. Includes a brief vignette about each decade, a collection of images, and a listing of important dates. Use the links at the top of the timeline to navigate to additional decades.

Media History Project Timeline

A fascinating timeline of important events in communications history - including cameras, telephones, computers, and more.

Nuclear Age Timeline

A great timeline covering the major nuclear development (and non-development) milestones of the century. Each decade includes some textual information about the nuclear events of the decade.

People's Century Timeline

This innovative timeline from PBS provides a handful of key events of the twentieth century, organized into over two dozen sub-timelines. Each of the timelines are clickable and provide timeline data in the window below the main timeline.

Technology Timeline: 1752 - 1990

A fascinating timeline from PBS that provides a history of technology in a nutshell.

That Wacky Century!

An irreverent look at the 20th century. Roger Wilcox includes some lighthearted events (i.e. 1977 - Star Wars is released...) among the essentials of 20th century history.

World War II in Europe Timeline

The events leading up to and during World War II in Europe, from the History Place.