The third decade of the 20th century was famous for producing jazz, flappers, and more culture but it is also infamously remembered for exorbitant inflation and the Stock Market Crash.

Jazz Singer

The first movie with sound, otherwise known as a talkie.

The First Assassination Attempt on Mussolini

On April 7, 1926, Italian Fascist leader Benito Mussolini had just given a speech in Rome to the International Congress of Surgeons when a bullet nearly ended his life. Find out more about this near miss by Violet Gibson.

1929 - St. Valentine's Day Massacre

On the morning of St. Valentine's Day in 1929, seven men were gunned down in cold blood in a garage in Chicago. The massacre, orchestrated by Al Capone, shocked the nation by its brutality and made Capone a national celebrity.

Black History Month

Black History Month is a month set aside to learn, honor, and celebrate the achievements of black men and women throughout history. Since its inception, Black History Month has always been celebrated in February. Find out how Black History Month originated, why February was chosen, and what the annual theme for Black History Month is for this year.

1920 - 1929 Timeline

A year-by-year chronology of the third decade of the 20th century.

The 19th Amendment

The 19th Amendment gave women the right to vote in the United States. Here is the complete text of the 18th Amendment.

Babe Ruth Makes Home-Run Record

On September 30, 1927, in the second-to-last game of the season, Babe Ruth hit his 60th home run in a single season, making a new record that lasted for 34 years.

Bubble Gum Invented

Chewing gum has a history that spans as far back as the ancient Greeks; however, bubble gum, a type of chewing gum that allows the chewer to make bubbles, has a much more recent history. Find out who invented bubble gum and why it has that pink color.

Charleston Dance Becomes Popular

The Charleston dance became popular after appearing along with the song, "The Charleston," by James P. Johnson in the Broadway musical Runnin' Wild in 1923.

Fatty Arbuckle Scandal

In 1921 Roscoe Fatty Arbuckle was arrested and tried for the murder of a young starlet named Virginia Rappe. The public was against him but the jurors could find no evidence. Find out more about this Hollywood scandal.

First Academy Awards

The first Academy Awards ceremony was held on May 16, 1929. It was a quiet affair compared to the glamor and glitz that accompany the ceremonies of today.

Flappers in the Roaring Twenties

In the 1920s, a new woman was born. She smoked, drank, danced, and voted. She cut her hair, wore make-up, and went to petting parties. She was giddy and took risks. She was a flapper.

Henry Ford

Henry Ford became an icon of a self-made man. He began life as a farmer's son and quickly became rich and famous. Although an industrialist, Ford remembered the common man. He designed the Model T for the masses, installed a mechanized assembly line to make production cheaper and faster, and instituted the $5 per day pay rate for his workers. Learn more about this complicated man, from his birth to his death.

Hitler's Beer Hall Putsch

On November 8, 1923, Adolf Hitler attempted to sieze control of Germany through a putsch (coup). Learn about his failed attempt.

Insulin Discovered

Diabetes used to be a death sentence. Learn more about how medical researcher Frederick Banting and others discovered insulin.

Leopold and Loeb

On May 21, 1924, two brilliant, wealthy teenagers attempted to commit the perfect crime just for the thrill of it. Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb kidnapped 14-year-old Bobby Franks and brutally murdered him. Although it was nearly assured that they were going to receive the death penalty, famous defense attorney Clarence Darrow took their case.

Mein Kampf

Mein Kampf, which means My Struggle, was a two-volume book written by Adolf Hitler during and right after his stay in Landsberg prison. In this book, Hitler lambasts Jews and the current German government and outlines his plans for the future.

Pancho Villa Retires

In 1920, Pancho Villa agreed to retire as part of a peace agreement with the new interim president of Mexico, Adolfo De la Huerta.

Prohibition

Prohibition was the period in United States history in which the manufacture, sale, and transportation of intoxicating liquors was outlawed. It was a time characterized by speakeasies, glamour, and gangsters and a period of time in which even the average citizen broke the law.

Sliced Bread Invented

We have all heard, and perhaps even personally used, the phrase, the greatest thing since sliced bread! Yet, when was sliced bread invented and why was it so amazing? Find out more about the history of sliced bread.

Soviets Change the Calendar

Although Lenin accepted the Gregorian calendar in the Soviet Union in 1918, the Soviets revamped the entire calendar again 1929, creating a Soviet revolutionary calendar that had five-day weeks. Learn more about the history of the calendar and the Soviet calendar reforms.

St. Valentines Day Massacre

On the morning of St. Valentine's Day in 1929, seven men were gunned down in cold blood in a garage in Chicago. The massacre, orchestrated by Al Capone, shocked the nation by its brutality and made Capone a national celebrity.

Stock Market Crash of 1929

After several years of a bull market, thousands upon thousands of everyday people had invested their money in the stock market. On October 29, 1929, the stock market crashed, devastating the economy.

Tomb of King Tut Found

In November 1922, Howard Carter discovered not just an unknown ancient Egyptian tomb, but one that had lain nearly undisturbed for over 3,000 years. What lay within King Tut's tomb astounded the world.

Winnie-the-Pooh First Published

With the fist publication of the children's book Winnie-the-Pooh on October 14, 1926, the world was introduced to some of the most popular fictional characters of the twentieth century - Winnie the Pooh, Piglet, and Eeyore.

The Very First Mickey Mouse Cartoon

Walt Disney was on a long, depressing train ride home in April 1928 when he doodled a black and white mouse with big ears and a thin tail. The character that would soon to become Mickey Mouse took the world by storm by appearing in the world's first talking cartoon, Steamboat Willie. Find out more about the history of the very first Mickey Mouse.