Ancient legendary heroes, some of whom may have been deified, especially those from Ancient Greece, like Achilles, Odysseus, Hercules, Perseus, and Theseus, but not including bona fide historical heroes.

Who Is the Greatest Greek Hero?

Who Is the Greatest Greek Hero?

Who's Who in Greek Legend?

When you're reading the literature and history of Ancient Greece, there are a few names that should be as familiar to you as Shakespeare, the Bible, Kennedy, or Hitler. Here they are....

Heroes Trivia Quiz

A self-grading trivia quiz testing your knowledge of information on the Greek heroes provided by this site.

Top Greek Heroes

Read about the top heroes from Greek myth and legend.

Who Were the Argonauts?

A quick look at the identity of the Argonauts.

Bellerophon

Homer writes about Bellerophon and Proteus in Book VI of the Iliad.

Bellerophon

Find out about the hero Bellerophon.

Cadmus

Find out about the hero Cadmus.

Cecrops

Cecrops was the early king who civilized the people of what became Athens.

Meleager

Meleager (Meleagros) was a great Greek hero involved in the Calydonian boar hunt in which he yielded the prize to Atalanta, and the voyage of the Argonauts.

Menelaus

The leader of the Trojan War was Agamemnon. His brother and fellow king was Menelaus, the aggrieved husband of Helen of Troy. Learn more about Menelaus, a pivotal figure in the stories about the Trojan War.

Orion

Orion is one of the heroes of Greek mythology known better for his place among the stars.

Orpheus

Because of his great musical talent, the mythological Orpheus was given the singular privilege of having the opportunity to rescue his wife, Eurydice, from death.

Heroes

Heroes feature prominently in the wars, myths, and literature of the ancient world. Not all these people would be heroes by today's standards, and some wouldn't be by Classical Greek standards. What makes a hero changes with the era, but it's often tied up with concepts of bravery and virtue. Incidentally, although there are women here, "virtue" comes from the word for man.

Contents - The Golden Fleece and the Heroes Who Lived Before Achilles

Contents of the Etext of The Golden Fleece and the Heroes Who Lived Before Achilles by Padraic Colum

Contents - The Heroes or Greek Fairy Tales for My Children, by Charles Kingsley

The Heroes or Greek Fairy Tales for My Children, by Charles Kingsley Contents.

Contents - "The Tanglewood Tales," by Nathaniel Hawthorne

"The Tanglewood Tales," by Nathaniel Hawthorne Contents.

Contents - "The Age of Fable or Stories of Gods and Heroes," by Thomas Bulfinch

An online e-text of tales from Greek mythology, written by Thomas Bulfinch. Bulfinch covers most of the stories of Greek mythology and provides an introduction to the world of the Greek gods.

Atreus

Atreus and Thyestes were sons of Pelops who were mutually guilty of betrayal.

Philoctetes

Philoctetes inherited Hercules' bow and arrows, was abandoned by Odysseus at Lemnon, slew Paris, and was one of the few Greeks who came back home from the Trojan War.