Articles on the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire

Articles on the decline and fall of the Roman Empire and emperors of the later years before the Fall of Rome.

Fall of Rome - Decline of the Roman Empire

An introduction to the Fall, providing an overview of reasons for the Fall and the decline of the Roman Empire. Also see: Guest Feature on the Fall of Rome, by Adrian Dorrington The End of the Roman Empire Here is a description of articles on this site on the debilitating effects of emperors and barbarians on the Roman Empire. ...

End of the Republic

Articles on the end of the Republic and the people involved in the activities that led to the fall of the republic.

Decay

Why and how decay is a reason for the fall of Rome.

Byzantine Empire

The Fall of the Roman Empire was a Western Empire phenomenon at least during the ancient period. The Empire didn't really fall in the East, which wasn't called "Byzantine" until recently. KL47, from the forum provides an enlightening explanation.

Attila the Hun - Was Attila a Military Genius?

E. A. Thompson looks at the historical record to set straight the abilities of the leader of the Huns, Attila, in his book The Huns.

Last Best Chance to Defeat Alaric and the Goths - Stilicho and Rufinus

Last Best Chance to Defeat Alaric and the Goths - Stilicho and Rufinus. Because of personal ambition, the Pretorian Prefect Rufinus prevented Stilicho from destroying Alaric and the Goths when there was a chance.

Sons of Nubel and the Gildonic War

If the sons of Nubel hadn't been so eager to do away with one another, Africa might have become independent of Rome.

4 Periods of Roman History

Although a bit simplistic, there are four main divisions of Roman history that are named for some aspect of those in power: the period of kings or regal period, the period of neither anarchy nor tyranny known as the Republic, the period when the emperor ruled, known as the Imperial, and the period when the capital of government of the Roman...

Shapur I vs the Romans

Shapur I inflicted a humiliating defeat on the Romans during the period of military anarchy.

Decadence, Rome and Romania, and the Emperors who Weren't

This site about Rome and the Roman Empire mentions that emperors did not have to march on Rome as Septimius Severus did.