Timelines of the Emperors from Augustus to the Fall of Rome.

Roman Emperors Table of Dates of the Byzantine Roman Emperors

Table of dates of the Roman Emperors after the fall of Rome in the West. The names and dates of Byzantine emperors.

Order of the Early Emperors

Timeline shows at a glance the sequence of emperors from Augustus to Trajan.

Roman Emperors - Age at Accession

Chart of the Roman emperors from Augustus to Theodosius, with the years of their reigns and approximate age at accession.

Order of the 2nd Century Roman Emperors

Timeline shows at a glance the sequence of emperors from Trajan to Septimius Severus.

Order of the 3rd Century Roman Emperors

Timeline shows at a glance the sequence of emperors from Septimius Severus and Caracalla to Diocletian and Galerius.

Chaos Emperors (from 235-285)

Chaos Emperors - Roman Emperors during the period of chaos (or military anarchy or Imperial Crisis) and short reigns in the Roman Empire.

Late Emperors

Table of eastern and western Roman emperors after the death of Theodosius I.

Roman Emperors Timelines

Timeline for Rome, showing the reigns of various Roman emperors.

Imperial Timeline

Table of the dates of the late Eastern and Western Roman emperors after Theodosius I.

Age of Chaos Emperors

Table of the dates and manners of death of the generally short-lived and murdered emperors from Maximinus Thrax to Carinus.

AUC - Ab Urbe Condita

Glossary entry on Ab Urbe Condita, a term that is found in dating Roman events.

Civil War of 69 Emperors

Table of dates and data on the emperors who immediately followed Nero, Galba, Otho and Vitellius.

Constantine Dynasty Emperors

Table of dates and data on the emperors of Constantine's dynasty.

Emperor Claudius Timeline

The Julio-Claudian Emperor Claudius is familiar to people who lived in the late 20th century from the televised version of the I, Claudius series, written by Robert Graves. He was familiar in antiquity as a bumbling scholar who was not supposed to become emperor, although he was part of the prestigious first family. Here is a timeline of events...

Flavian Emperors

Table of dates and data on the Flavian emperors, Vespasian, Titus and Domitian.

Justinian

Timeline of the reign of the Byzantine Emperor Justinian.

Roman Emperors After Emperor Commodus

Timeline of the Roman emperors who followed Emperor Commodus, Emperors Pertinax and Didius Julianus, and the accession of Septimius Severus.

Tetrarchy Table

Table of the emperors from Diocletian to Constantine the Great.

Tiberius Timeline

Timeline of Tiberius, the second emperor of Rome.

What Is the Year of the Four Emperors

Explanation of the term "year of the four emperors."

What Is the Year of the Six Emperors

Explanation of the term "year of the six emperors."

Stemmata of Imperial Dynasties

Family trees of Julio-Claudians & Some Relatives, Flavian Emperors, Trajan, Hadrian and the Antonines, Severans, Tetrarchs and their Descendants, etc.

Dates for Major Events in Ancient History

Time line of major events in the ancient history of the world. Most dates and events on the ancient history timeline are of political importance.