Daily life and history of Colonial America and the thirteen original colonies.

The Great Awakening

The Great Awakening was a period of individual spiritual awakening in colonial New England. Learn more about this period, the individuals involved, and its significance in Colonial America.

Overview of Colonial America

Learn about the similarities and differences between the three major regions of the thirteen colonies: New England, Middle, and Southern.

Colonial Governments of the Thirteen Colonies

Learn about the nature of colonial governments in the thirteen colonies.

Mayflower Compact

The Mayflower Compact is a foundational document in American History. It was agreed to by the Pilgrims aboard the Mayflower in 1620. Learn more about this important document.

Biography of Benjamin Franklin

Here is an biography of Benjamin Franklin. His life as a scientist, writer, politician, elder statesmen, and diplomat was hugely significant in the history of America. Learn more about Benjamin Franklin.

The Thirteen Colonies

This provides an overview of the key dates involved with each of the thirteen colonies.

Characteristics of New England Colonies

The New England colonies shared many common characteristics. This article takes a look at these characteristics and how they helped form the region.

Chart of the 13 Original Colonies

Brief overview of the origins of the 13 original colonies. The chart lists the date each colony was founded, the individuals associated with the founding, and whether it became a Royal colony.

Colonial History Quiz

Do you have what it takes to be considered a Colonial History guru? Can you make it all the way to the final question? Take this quiz to find out.

Proclamation of 1763

Learn about the Proclamation of 1763. This royal decree restricted westward expansion and trade leading to discontent amongst colonists. It was a key factor that would eventually lead to open rebellion.

Timeline of American History: 1600 - 1625

Take a look at the very beginning of United States history with this timeline created by your Guide.

Colonial America Timeline: 1626-1650

Use these American History Timelines to find the key events that happened in America's past. This timeline focuses on the years 1626-1650.

Colonial America Timeline: 1651-1675

Use these American History Timelines to find the key events that happened in America's past. This timeline focuses on the years 1651-1675.

Timeline of American History: 1675-1700

Follow the course of American History from 1675 to 1700 created by your Guide.

Colonial America Timeline: 1701-1725

Use these American History Timelines to find the key events that happened in America's past. This timeline focuses on the years 1701-1725.

Virginia Colony Profile

Learn more about the colony of Virginia including its significance and important people.

William Penn Biography

William Penn was a leading Quaker who founded the Pennsylvania colony as a place of religious tolerance. Learn more about William Penn with this biographical sketch.

The Declaration of Independence

The Declaration of Independence was actually written long after the first shot of the war against Great Britain had been fired at the Battles of Lexington and Concord. Read about this 'lawyers brief' and find great resources to further your study.

Colonial America Maps

Dating from 1625 to 1774, these rare maps from the University of Georgia's Hargrett Rare Book & Document Library provide a unique look at the way explorers and colonists viewed the New World. Please note that a few of these maps may take some time to download.

Jamestown

A nice history from the Association for Preservation of Virginian Antiquities about the first permanent English settlement in the colonies.

Keigwin & Matthews Collection of Rare and Historical Documents

A private collection of historical newspapers maps and writings focusing on the period in American history from the Colonial Period through the Jefferson presidency.

The Library Company of Philadelphia

An independent research library with collections documenting every aspect of the history and background of American culture from the time of the thirteen colonies to the end of the 19th century. Check out the historical images.

Patrick Henry's Patriotic Speech

Spoken at the Second Virginia Convention, here is the text of Patrick's Henry's fiery speech. This was where he uttered the famous phrase, "I know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death!"

The Trial of Anne Hutchinson

America, land of religious freedom? Not for Anne Hutchinson. Read this article concerning her trial for sedition because of her Puritan beliefs.

Brief History of the Thirteen Colonies

This great resource gives a brief background for each of the 13 colonies along with resources for further investigation. Definitely a site to spend some time exploring.

What was the first settlement in America?

What was the first permanent settlement in America? Find out with this FAQ.

New England Confederation

What was the New England Confederation and why was it important in American colonial history? Find out here.

King Philip's War

An outbreak of violence that occurred between 1675 and 1678 in the New England colonies was called King Philip's War. Find out more about this war...

Zenger Trial

The Zenger trial is important in American History as it helped to set the idea of freedom of the press. Learn more about John Peter Zenger and his famous trial.

Mayflower Compact Text

Read the actual transcription of the original Mayflower Compact as transcribed by William Bradford.

Bacon's Rebellion

Information on Nathaniel Bacon and Bacon's Rebellion along with its impact on the Jamestown colony.

Anne Hutchinson

Here is a profile of religious reformer Anne Hutchinson who would help found Portsmouth, Rhode Island.

King William's War

This article looks at the events of King William's War and its effects on the American colonies.

Queen Anne's War

Queen Anne's War was one of four wars between the French and the British on the North American continent during the American Colonial Period. Learn about this war and its aftermath.

King George's War

This article looks at the events and results of King George's War, one of the wars that occurred between Britain and France during the American colonial era.

Triangle Trade

Find out more about the Triangle Trade in American History.