Which Chief Justice Served the Longest?

Find out which United States Supreme Court Chief Justice served the longest with this faq.

What is the role of the Chief Justice?

The Chief Justice is the head of the Supreme Court. Learn more about what the Chief Justice actually does and his or her role.

How does someone become a Supreme Court Justice?

This faq provides information for how someone becomes a United States Supreme Court Justice.

List of Supreme Court Cases

The Founding Fathers established a system of checks and balances to insure that one branch of government did not become more powerful than the other two branches. The

Miranda v Arizona

Learn about the Supreme Court case that created the Miranda Rights ensuring that the accused would be informed of their rights before questioning.

Mapp v. Ohio

Learn about the Supreme Court case that decided upon the exclusionary rule that illegally obtained evidence was not admissible in a court of law.

Korematsu v. United States

Korematsu v United States was a Supreme Court decision that upheld the conviction of Frank Korematsu for defying an order to be interned with other Japanese-Americans during World War II.

Brown v. Board of Education

Brown v Board of Education was a Supreme Court decision that overturned the separate but equal doctrine which had been given legal standing with Plessy v Ferguson. Learn more about this key court case with this profile.

Plessy v. Ferguson

Plessy v Ferguson was a Supreme Court decision that upheld the separate but equal doctrine. Learn more about the key court case with this profile.

Marbury v. Madison

Marbury vs Madison was a historic case that established the precedent of Judicial Review. Learn more about this history case.

McCulloch v. Maryland

McCulloch v Maryland was a historic court case that allowed for implied powers of the federal government. This case allowed the powers of the federal government to evolve.

Gibbons v. Ogden

Gibbons v. Ogden was a historic court case that established the supremacy of the federal government over state's rights. The case gave the federal government the power to regulate interstate commerce.

Scott v. Stanford

Scott v. Stanford was a historic court case that impacted the condition of slavery. The court case struck down the Missouri Compromise and the Kansas-Nebraska Act.

Gideon v. Wainwright

Gideon v. Wainwright was an important Supreme Court decision that ruled that through the 14th Amendment, the states are required to give individuals a public attorney for all criminal cases if they could not afford their own.

Key Supreme Court Cases and the Fourteenth Amendment

Learn about the key Supreme Court cases in which the fourteenth amendment was used to extend aspects of the Bill of Rights to the states.

Schenck v. United States

Learn about the Supreme Court case Schenck v. United States that established the clear and present danger test for free speech during times of war.

Roe v. Wade

Roe v. Wade is a key Supreme Court decision about abortion and the Constitutional right to privacy. Learn the key facts and significance of this case.