Learn about the history of the judicial branch especially the U.S. Supreme Court and its most famous cases.

Which Supreme Court justice wrote the most dissenting opinions?

Which Supreme Court justice wrote the most dissenting opinions? Read this faq to find out.

Who was the first African-American Supreme Court Justice?

What was the first African-American Supreme Court justice? Read this faq to find out.

What are the requirements to become a Supreme Court justice?

What are the requirements to become a Supreme Court justice? Read this faq to find out the answer.

Who was the first woman to be on the Supreme Court?

Who was the first woman to become a justice on the United States Supreme Court? Read this faq to find out the answer.

How many Supreme Court Justices Are There?

How many Supreme Court justices are there? Find out the answer with this FAQ.

Who was on the first Supreme Court?

Who was on the first United States Supreme Court? Check out this faq for the answer.

Who was the only president to serve on the Supreme Court?

Who was the only president to serve on the Supreme Court? This article answers this questions and provides further details about his time on the court..

How long do Supreme Court Justices serve?

For how long do Supreme Court Justices serve? What is the length of their term? How can they be removed? This article takes a look at the length of time that Supreme Court Justices serve.

Who selects the Supreme Court justices?

Who selects the Supreme Court justices? What method is used to first select and then confirm them to the United States Supreme Court? This article takes a look at how someone becomes a Supreme Court justice.

Early Development of the United States Court System

Follow the creation and early development of the US Court System starting with the Judiciary Act of 1789.

Concurring Opinion

What is a concurring opinion for the US Supreme Court? What is its significance?

Dissenting Opinion

What is a dissenting opinion for the US Supreme Court? What is its significance?

Majority Opinion

What is the majority opinion for the US Supreme Court? What is its significance?

United States Supreme Court

What is the US Supreme Court? What does it do? This article looks at the basics of the US Supreme Court.

Judicial Review

Learn about the concept of judicial review that give the US Supreme Court the right to review laws for their constitutionality.

John Marshall, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court

Here is a profile of John Marshall, the fourth chief justice of the Supreme Court responsible for deciding numerous key cases. Learn more about John Marshall with this profile.

Oyez Oyez Oyez: A Supreme Court WWW Resource

Opinions of all the major decisions of the Supreme Court, along with the actual audio recordings of major cases (since 1955).

Commonwealth v. Hunt

Learn about Commonwealth v. Hunt, a very important court case in the fight for the legitimacy of labor unions.