For the Romans, it was not true that all people are created equal. Roman society, like most ancient societies, was heavily stratified. Some of the people resident in ancient Rome were slaves, who lacked any power of their own. Unlike modern era slaves, however, Roman slaves could win or earn their freedom. In the early years, at the top of Roman Society were kings who held supreme power, but soon enough the kings were thrown out. Likewise, the rest of the social hierarchy was also adaptable: The lower, plebeian class, by nature the majority of the Roman population, wanted, demanded, and got more. A wealthy class developed between the nobles and plebeians.

Newly freed slaves could become part of the plebeian class if they were citizens. Whether or not a manumitted (freed) slave became a citizen depended on whether the slave was of age, his master was a citizen, and whether the ceremony was formal. Libertinus is the Latin term for a freedman. A freedman would remain a client of his former master. Newly freed slaves could become part of the plebeian class if they were citizens. Whether or not a manumitted (freed) slave became a citizen depended on whether the slave was of age, his master was a citizen, and whether the ceremony was formal.is the Latin term for a freedman. A freedman would remain a client of his former master. What Is the Difference Between Freedman/Freedwoman and Free Born?

The ancient Roman proletariat was recognized by King Servius Tullius as the lowest class of Roman citizens. Because of the slave-based economy, proletarian wage-earners had a hard time getting money. Later, when Marius reformed the Roman army, he paid the proletarian soldiers. The bread and circuses made famous during the roman Imperial period and mentioned by the satirist Juvenal, were for the benefit of the Roman proletariat. The name of the proletariat refers directly to their chief function for Rome -- the production of Roman proles 'offspring'. The ancient Roman proletariat was recognized by King Servius Tullius as the lowest class of Roman citizens. Because of the slave-based economy, proletarian wage-earners had a hard time getting money. Later, when Marius reformed the Roman army, he paid the proletarian soldiers. The bread and circuses made famous during the roman Imperial period and mentioned by the satirist Juvenal, were for the benefit of the Roman proletariat. The name of the proletariat refers directly to their chief function for Rome -- the production of Roman'offspring'.

The term plebeian is synonymous with lower class. The plebeians (also known simply as plebs) were that part of the Roman population whose origin was among the conquered Latins (as opposed to the Roman conquerors). Plebeians are contrasted with patrician noblemen. Although over time the Roman plebeians were able to amass wealth and great power, the plebeians were originally poor and downtrodden. The term plebeian is synonymous with lower class. The plebeians (also known simply as plebs) were that part of the Roman population whose origin was among the conquered Latins (as opposed to the Roman conquerors). Plebeians are contrasted with patrician noblemen. Although over time the Roman plebeians were able to amass wealth and great power, the plebeians were originally poor and downtrodden.

Equites were wealthy Roman horsemen or knights. The name is derived from the Latin for horse, equus. The equites came to be a social class just under the patricians. Their number included Rome's successful businessmen. were wealthy Roman horsemen or knights. The name is derived from the Latin for horse,. Thecame to be a social class just under the patricians. Their number included Rome's successful businessmen.

The patricians were the Roman upper class. They were probably originally relatives of the patres 'fathers' - the heads of the families of the old Roman tribes. In the beginning, the patricians held all the power of Rome. Even after the plebeians won their rights, there were vestigial positions reserved for patricians. The patricians were the Roman upper class. They were probably originally relatives of the'fathers' - the heads of the families of the old Roman tribes. In the beginning, the patricians held all the power of Rome. Even after the plebeians won their rights, there were vestigial positions reserved for patricians. Vestal virgins had to be from patrician families and Roman patricians had special marriage ceremonies.

The king was the head of the people, chief priest, leader in war, and the judge whose sentence couldn't be appealed. He convened the Roman Senate. He was accompanied by 12 lictors who carried a bundle of rods with a symbolic death-wielding axe in the center of the bundle. However much power he had, he could be kicked out. After the expulsion of the last of the Tarquins, the 7 kings of Rome were remembered with such hatred that there were never again kings in Rome. This is true despite the fact that there were Roman emperors who were monarchs with as much power as the kings. The king was the head of the people, chief priest, leader in war, and the judge whose sentence couldn't be appealed. He convened the Roman Senate. He was accompanied by 12 lictors who carried a bundle of rods with a symbolic death-wielding axe in the center of the bundle. However much power he had, he could be kicked out. After the expulsion of the last of the Tarquins, the 7 kings of Rome were remembered with such hatred that there were never again kings in Rome. This is true despite the fact that there were Roman emperors who were monarchs with as much power as the kings.

Romans could be either patrons or clients. This was a mutually beneficial relationship. The number of clients and sometimes the status of clients conferred prestige on the patron. Roman clients owed their votes to the patron. Roman patrons protected their clients, gave legal advice, and helped the clients financially or in other ways. A patron could have a patron of his own; therefore, a client, could have his own clients, but when two high status Romans had a relationship of mutual benefit, they were likely to choose the label amicus 'friend' to describe the relationship since amicus did not imply stratification. It is always interesting to speculate on the extent to which (the media portrayal of) the mafia is dependent on this ancient mutually beneficial Roman institution.