On the road towards the American Revolution, the American colonists were pulled into a number of wars that began in Europe. King George's War was the American name for the War of Austrian Succession that lasted from 1740-1748. Coinciding with and then subsumed into this war was the War of Jenkin's Ear (1739-1743) fought between Spain and England over shipping concerns. As with the other wars before these (King William's War and Queen Anne's War), the results of the war did nothing to solve the serious boundary disputes between England and France. The two countries would meet again in the French and Indian War. The monetary costs of carrying out warfare on both continents would result in taxes being raised and the introduction of more direct supervision of the colonies. These in turn would lead to the rise of individuals such as Samuel Adams and Thomas Paine would lead the charge against these actions. Ultimately, the colonists would air their grievances with the Declaration of Independence. King George's War and the War of Jenkin's Ear

The Bill of Rights was added to the US Constitution as a way to ensure that individual rights would be protected. However, these only applied to the federal government. It was not until the passage of the fourteenth amendment that these rights have been one-by-one applied at the state level through decisions made by the US Supreme Court. The following  list highlights a few of the major court cases in which the Supreme Court has extended these rights:

The founding fathers were political leaders who took part in the American Revolution and helped found the new nation after independence was won. There were many founding fathers and mothers. However, these ten were chosen because of the huge impact they had on the American Revolution, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution.

Martin Van Buren, "Old Kinderhook," served as the eighth president of the United States. Heavily involved in the Democratic Party, he helped form one of the first political machines. He was also part of Andrew Jackson's famed Kitchen Cabinet. Learn more about this president whose only major foreign policy issue was the anticlimactic "Aroostook War."