The AP US History exam is one of the most popular Advanced Placement exams administered by the College Board. It consists of two parts: Multiple Choice and Free Response. There are 80 multiple choice questions which count for 50% of the test. The other 50% is made up of two types of essays: standard and document-based (DBQ). Students answer two standard essays (55% of the Free Response section) and one DBQ (45%). Here are my top ten tips for doing well on the challenging AP US History exam.

You have 55 minutes to answer 80 multiple choice questions which gives you about 40 seconds per question. Therefore, you need to use your time wisely answering the questions you know best first and eliminating obvious wrong answers as you go through. Don't be afraid to write on your test booklet to keep track. Mark through the answers you know are wrong. Clearly mark when you skip a question so you can return to it quickly before the end of the test.

Unlike in the past when points were deducted for guessing, the College Board no longer takes points off. So your first step is to eliminate as many options as possible. After this, guess away.

Look for key words in questions such as EXCEPT, NOT, or ALWAYS. The wording of answers is important too. In the AP US History exam, you are choosing the best answer which may mean that several answers could appear to be correct.

Be sure to write with "voice" in your essay. In other words, pretend that you have some authority on the subject. Make sure to take a stand in your answer and not be wishy-washy. This stand should be stated immediately through your thesis which is one or two sentences that directly answer the question. The rest of the essay should then support your thesis. Make sure that to use specific facts and information in your supporting paragraphs.

Be sure that your essay includes historical facts to prove your thesis. However, "data dumping" by including every possible fact you remember will not gain you any extra points and can result in a lowering of your score. It also runs the risk of you including incorrect data which would hurt your overall score.

Avoid broad survey questions. They appear easy because you know a lot of information about them. However, they are often the most challenging because of the breadth required to answer them effectively. Writing a provable thesis can pose real problems for these types of questions.

Make sure to answer all parts of the question. It is important to spend some time going over each part and it may even help to reword the question.

Carefully examine each document. Make a judgment concerning point of view and the possible origin of each document. Don't be afraid to underline key points and make relevant historical notes in the margin.

DBQ: Do not try to use all of the documents in your DBQ answer. In fact, it is better to effectively use less than to ineffectively use more. A good rule of thumb is to use 4 documents well to prove your thesis.

Eat a healthy dinner the night before before, get a good night's sleep, and eat breakfast the morning of the exam.