Rutherford B. Hayes was born on October 4, 1822 in Delaware, Ohio. He was elected to the presidency in 1876 after a controversial election. Following are ten key facts that are important to understand when studying the life and presidency of Rutherford B. Hayes.

1. Was Extremely Close to His Sister Fanny  Rutherford B. Hayes' father died before he was born. His mother raised him and his sister, Fanny. When she died in 1856 after giving birth to stillborn twins, Hayes wrote in his diary, "The dearest friend of childhood, the affectionate adviser, the confidante of all my life, the one I loved best, is gone."

Hayes attended the Norwalk Seminary and a college preparatory academy before attending Kenyon College. He graduated first in his class. He was very interested in the election of 1840 and jubilant when William Henry Harrison. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 1845.

Hayes married Hayes married Lucy Ware Webb on December 30, 1852. She was the first First Lady to have been a college graduate. Lucy was strict in her Methodist religion. She believed wholeheartedly in temperance. She banned alcohol at White House state functions earning her the nickname "Lemonade Lucy."

4. Was Wounded Four Times Fighting During the Civil War At the start of the At the start of the Civil War in 1861, Hayes joined the Union Army as a major in the Twenty-third Ohio Volunteer Infantry. He was wounded four times during his service, the most serious of which occurred in 1862 at the Battle of South Mountain . Hayes eventually rose to the rank of major general of volunteers.

5. Was the Governor of Ohio In 1864, Hayes was elected to be a U.S. representative. He served as a U.S. representative for Ohio from 1865 until 1867. In 1867, he was elected to be the governor of Ohio. He served in this office until 1876, leaving once he was elected as president of the United States.

6. Won the Presidency With the Compromise of 1877 Hayes election as president was quite controversial. He was opposed by Samuel J. Tilden who received more popular votes and was one electoral vote shy of winning the presidency outright. The votes in three Republican-controlled states were in contention. A fifteen member investigative committee was created to figure determine the outcome of the election. In the end, they voted eight to seven along party lines, giving all of the electoral votes to Hayes and allowing him to win. Many believe that Hayes agreed to the Compromise of 1877 which effectively ended Hayes election as president was quite controversial. He was opposed by Samuel J. Tilden who received more popular votes and was one electoral vote shy of winning the presidency outright. The votes in three Republican-controlled states were in contention. A fifteen member investigative committee was created to figure determine the outcome of the election. In the end, they voted eight to seven along party lines, giving all of the electoral votes to Hayes and allowing him to win. Many believe that Hayes agreed to the Compromise of 1877 which effectively ended Reconstruction by ending the military occupation of the South. The Democratic party was promised certain administrative positions once Hayes became president.

Many people felt that the Hayes 'stole' the election. He was nicknamed "His Fraudulency" by his opponents. He found that getting key legislation passed was quite difficult. He attempted to get civil service reform passed. However, the patronage system was so entrenched that his actions failed, and members of his own party were angered at his attempts. He would lose the support of the party by the end of his term in office.  Many people felt that the Hayes 'stole' the election. He was nicknamed "His Fraudulency" by his opponents. He found that getting key legislation passed was quite difficult. He attempted to get civil service reform passed. However, the patronage system was so entrenched that his actions failed, and members of his own party were angered at his attempts. He would lose the support of the party by the end of his term in office.

8. Dealt With the Issue of Chinese Immigration Through Diplomacy In the 1880s, the issue of Chinese immigration was quite a contentious issue. There existed quite a strong anti-Chinese sentiment, especially in the West. Because of this, Congress tried to pass a law stringently restricting Chinese immigration. Hayes ended up vetoing this measure. In 1880, Hayes' secretary of state, William Evarts, made an agreement with China restricting immigration, thereby appeasing those who wanted to completely deny any further Chinese immigration while keeping diplomatic lines open.

9. Was President During Issues Over the Nature of Currency While Hayes was president, the nature of US currency was a major issue across both political parties. In contention was whether " While Hayes was president, the nature of US currency was a major issue across both political parties. In contention was whether " greenbacks " should be backed in silver or gold. Some felt that if currency was to backed by silver, than it was felt that the US government should buy silver and turn it into coins to keep money available. Hayes and his supporters felt that paper currency should be redeemable in gold since its value was quite stable. In 1878, Hayes tried to veto the Bland-Allison Act requiring the government to buy silver to create more coins. However, one year later the Resumption of Specie Act passed requiring that greenbacks created after January 1, 1879, would be backed with gold.

10. Spent His Time After the Presidency Fighting for Personal Causes Hayes retired after his first term in office. He devoted the rest of his life to promoting causes that were important to him. He fought for temperance and provided scholarships to African Americans. He also became a trustee for  Hayes retired after his first term in office. He devoted the rest of his life to promoting causes that were important to him. He fought for temperance and provided scholarships to African Americans. He also became a trustee for Ohio State University . He had a heart attack and passed away on January 17, 1893.