The American Revolution - the colonies and their struggle for independence from Great Britain.

Causes of the American Revolution

Find out what led to the American Revolution with this article that traces its causes from the French and Indian War to the beginning of the war.

The Boston Massacre

Who is to blame for the Boston Massacre? Was it truly an act of tyranny or just an unfortunate event of history? The evidence is not clear. Read the conflicting testimonies and decide for yourself.

The Declaration of Independence

The Declaration of Independence was actually written long after the first shot of the war against Great Britain had been fired at the Battles of Lexington and Concord. Read about this 'lawyers brief' and find great resources to further your study.

Text of the Declaration of Independence

Thomas Jefferson's document served as America's promise to "Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness." Written in 1776, this masterpiece put forth what the colonists were fighting for and helped form what this new nation was to stand for.

Treaty of Paris

Read the text of the Treaty of Paris. This treaty officially ended the American Revolutionary War on September 3, 1783.

Founding Fathers

Who were the top ten founding fathers? Here is my picks for the top ten founding fathers who helped form the United States.

Background to the American Revolution Lecture Outline

This outline covers the time leading to the Declaration of Independence. While written for educators, the numerous links provide detailed information about the people, battles and events on the road to war.

Archaeological Sites of the Revolution

Look at the Revolution from a new perspective. Investigate archaeological sites related to the war including Benedict Arnold's Gunboat and Fort Independence. This is from About's Guide to Archaeology.

Currency Act of 1764

Read the text of the Currency Act of 1764, the which banned the use of paper money as legal tender in all colonies.

Lexington and Concord

Learn all about the battles of Lexington and Concord with this overview of these key battles that began the American Revolution.