In 1819, the Missouri territory applied to be admitted to the union as a slave state. Despite meeting the necessary requirements for statehood, their request was denied by the northern dominated House of Representatives . Before their application, there were an equal number of free and slave sates (eleven each). Adding Missouri as a slave state would have upset the balance of power in favor of the slave states.

The House then passed the Tallmadge Amendment that stated that children of slave parents born in Missouri would gain their freedom at the age of 25. In addition, no one would be allowed to bring new slaves into Missouri once it gained statehood.

Southerners were extremely upset by these actions. Economically, they relied on slavery to produce cotton and other crops. They saw these moves by the northern states as a threat to their way of life. Further, their was the belief that if Missouri was not allowed to have slavery, it would be forbidden in any other new states trying to join the union. The South controlled the Senate and blocked the Tallmadge Amendment when it came up for a vote. The result was a Congressional deadlock until Speaker of the House Henry Clay came up with the Missouri Compromise.

The Compromise consisted of three main provisions:

The Missouri Compromise was very important at the time of its passage. It saved the United States from dealing with the divisive issue of slavery at a time of economic difficulties brought on by the. The slave states and southerners were in favor of the compromise because it did not forbid prospective states that were not in the Louisiana Purchase from becoming slave states. Northerners were also pleased with the law because slavery would be contained in the southern part of the nation. Further, the balance between free and slave states remained the same as before the compromise.

However, as would become obvious throughout the coming decades, the issues of slavery and sectionalism would not go away. Thomas Jefferson at age 77 was still alive at the time of the compromise and could see the coming storm averted only for a short time. He stated in a letter to William Short in 1820 that the "Missouri question aroused and filled me with alarm...I have been among the most sanguine in believing that our Union would be of long duration. I now doubt it much." Source: Library of Congress. Thomas Jefferson Papers. http://memory.loc.gov/cgi-bin/ampage?collId=mtj1&fileName=mtj1page051.db&recNum=1223