Mexican artist Frida Kahlo, wearing a folk costume and flowers in her hair, leans her head on her hand while lying in a hammock. (circa 1950)

Frida Kahlo was a Mexican artist known for her unique, colorful, and highly personal self-portraits. After surviving a horrific traffic accident as a teen, Kahlo began to paint for the first time during her recovery. Her paintings, rich in symbolism--and often disturbing--convey her deepest feelings about key events in her life. Kahlo was married twice to Mexican muralist Diego Rivera, with whom she had a stormy relationship. In the decades since her death in 1954, interest in Kahlo's work has intensified.

Dates: July 6, 1907* - July 13, 1954 (*For years, Frida Kahlo reported her birth year as 1910, presumably to coincide with the year the Mexican Revolution began.)

Also Known As: Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderon (born as)

Famous Quote: "There have been two great accidents in my life. One was the trolley, and the other was Diego. Diego was by far the worst."

Born in 1907 in Coyoacan, Mexico, Frida Kahlo was the third of four daughters born to Guillermo Kahlo and Matilde Calderon y Gonzalez. Frida's German-born father, the son of Hungarian Jews, had emigrated from Germany to Mexico as a young man in 1891. In an effort to assimilate, he had changed his name from Wilhelm to Guillermo. By the turn of the century, Guillermo had become a skilled and much sought-after photographer.

Guillermo's first wife had died in 1898 while giving birth to their second daughter. Distraught and ill-prepared to raise his daughters on his own, Guillermo married Frida's mother, Matilde, only four months after his first wife's death. Matilde, however, would not allow Guillermo's daughters from that first marriage to live with them; instead, they were sent to a convent orphanage.

The home where Frida was born had been built by her father and christened the Casa Azul, or "blue house." There, Frida and her sisters were raised as Roman Catholics by their devoutly Catholic mother. Although Jewish by birth, Frida's father did not practice his parents' faith, nor did he become a Catholic.

When Frida was six years old, she was stricken by polio during an epidemic. The once-energetic young girl was forced to remain on bed rest for nine months, resulting in atrophy of the muscles in her right leg. She was able to walk again, but her leg remained weak and noticeably withered for the rest of her life. Frida was very self-conscious about her leg and suffered emotionally from the taunting of her classmates, who called her pata de palo ("peg leg").

Lonely and withdrawn because of the teasing, Frida found comfort in creating an imaginary playmate. The notion of a duality, a "second Frida," would be realized in some of her later paintings.

In 1922, Frida's parents enrolled the 14-year old in a well-regarded preparatory school in Mexico City. An intelligent girl who loved to read, Frida Kahlo was one of only a handful of girls who passed the entrance exam at the predominantly male institution. She had plans to become a physician.

Kahlo blossomed at the preparatory school, earning good grades and finding her place in a small group of rebellious students that called themselves the "Cachuchas," so named for the caps they wore. Kahlo gained confidence in her new environment, becoming a strong, determined, and outspoken young woman. By the end of her first semester, Kahlo had fallen in love with a member of that group, Alejandro Arias.

In 1922, Frida Kahlo also met Diego Rivera, the acclaimed muralist, who had been hired to paint a mural at the school. Rivera was 36 years old and about to marry; Kahlo was only 15. Rivera would later become Kahlo's husband, but during Rivera's time working at the school, Kahlo was nothing more to him than a pesky schoolgirl who played pranks on him with her friends.

Alejandro Arias became Kahlo's boyfriend and was with her when she was gravely injured in a traffic accident--an experience that would alter the course of her life. On September 17, 1925, the small, flimsy, wooden bus that Kahlo and Arias had boarded collided violently with a trolley car, killing several people.

Arias was unharmed, but Kahlo suffered a gruesome injury--she was impaled through the pelvis by a metal handrail. Before medical personnel could arrive, a bystander, in an effort to help, pulled the piece of metal from Kahlo's body, causing horrendous pain.

Miraculously, Kahlo survived her injuries, which included several fractured vertebrae, along with fractures of her collarbone, pelvis, ribs, and right leg. She felt fortunate to be alive, yet often worried during those first few weeks whether she still might die. Plagued by severe pain and nightmares of the accident, Kahlo slept very little.

After a month in the hospital, Kahlo was well enough to return home, but she suffered relapses and had to be re-admitted several times. Although she gradually became stronger, Kahlo would endure chronic pain for the rest of her life and would undergo more than 30 surgeries.

After her near-fatal accident, Kahlo seemed to mature overnight. She gained a fortitude and steely resolve that would shape her personality and help her deal with the difficulties that lay ahead. Always frank in her opinions, she was now determined to live her life without concern for what others thought about her.

Forced to remain in bed encased in a body cast, Kahlo became restless and bored. She decided to try painting to help pass the time. Her family supplied her with paints and a special, angled easel that she could use while lying on her back. Her first painting was a self-portrait--the first of many self-portraits she would create over the years. Although she had never formally studied art, Kahlo's early paintings displayed natural talent.

Having missed her final exams because of the accident, Kahlo did not return to school. She wrote long letters to Alejandro, but he appeared to be avoiding her. His parents sent him on a trip to Europe, ostensibly to keep him away from Kahlo. The two drifted apart.

By late 1927, Kahlo had recuperated to the point that she could resume a more active life. She spent time with a group of artists and political activists who, in opposition to Mexican president Plutarco Calles, supported the Communist Party. One of the artists Kahlo encountered at these meetings was Diego Rivera.

Rivera recognized Kahlo from his time spent at her school five years earlier. No longer a schoolgirl, Kahlo was instantly attracted to Rivera, who was larger than life--both physically and in personality. (Kahlo's mother referred to the couple as "the elephant and the dove" because of their pronounced difference in size.")

Kahlo sought Rivera's opinion on her paintings, inviting him to her parents' house to see her collection. Rivera praised her work and encouraged her to keep painting and to develop a style of her own. The two soon became romantically involved. (Rivera's marriage to Lupe Marin had ended in 1928 due in part to his many affairs.)

Over the objections of Kahlo's mother, who considered the slovenly Rivera too old and too homely for her daughter, Frida Kahlo and Diego Rivera were married on August 21, 1929. Kahlo's father was the only family member to attend.

At her wedding, Kahlo flouted tradition, wearing a blouse and skirt borrowed from her maid instead of a white dress, and opted to keep her own surname. Kahlo was 22; her new husband was 42. By many accounts, the wedding reception was disastrous, with the drunken Rivera firing a gun, breaking a guest's finger, and destroying parts of the house where the reception was held.

The couple settled in Mexico City. As the wife of a well-known artist, Frida Kahlo enjoyed many privileges of her high-profile union. She traveled throughout Mexico, meeting and socializing with artists and intellectuals, often in support of the Communist Party. The wealthy Rivera also helped out Kahlo's parents financially.

Kahlo underwent a style transformation after her marriage. Encouraged by Rivera, she adopted the clothing and accessories of the Tehuana Indian tribe, sporting long, colorful skirts, bold jewelry, and elaborate decorations in her hair. By wearing native clothing, Kahlo sought to elevate the status of Mexican culture and embrace national pride. (The long skirts also helped to hide Kahlo's atrophied leg, which was still a source of embarrassment for her.)

Kahlo is not only remembered for her native dress, but also for her refusal to groom her facial hair--a light mustache and heavy eyebrows that met in the middle. She always included these features in her many self-portraits.

In October 1929, Rivera was expelled from the Communist Party because he had accepted a commission to do murals for the Mexican government, whose policies the Communist Party opposed. Kahlo resigned from the party in solidarity with her husband.

In 1930, Kahlo learned she was pregnant. But many doctors advised that she could not sustain a pregnancy or a delivery, given the extent of injuries to her pelvis and spine from the accident. Also, Rivera was opposed to having more children; he had already fathered four from his previous marriages. Under great pressure, and despite her desire to have a child, Kahlo had an abortion. She was inconsolable for weeks.

Even as she dealt with her grief, Kahlo began to hear rumors that Rivera was cheating on her with one of his assistants. She quickly came to realize that she had not married a man who would ever be faithful, and learned to reluctantly tolerate Rivera's many infidelities.

Painting helped Kahlo to deal with the difficulties in her life. She continued to work on her painting skills and to develop her own unique style. Despite her obvious talent, Kahlo felt overshadowed as an artist by her very successful husband.

In November 1930, Rivera was invited to San Francisco to paint murals for the San Francisco Stock Exchange. Kahlo accompanied him, eager to take her first trip outside of Mexico. While Rivera worked, Kahlo toured the city. She became as well-known for her expletive-laced, blunt statements as for her colorful and unusual attire.

When the couple returned to Mexico in June 1931, they moved into the Casa Azul while their new house was being built in Mexico City. Rivera had designed two houses that would be linked by a bridge, giving himself and Kahlo a measure of privacy, while still allowing them to be together when they wanted.

Rivera and Kahlo traveled to New York City in 1931 when Rivera exhibited his paintings in a one-man show at the Museum of Modern Art. A great success, the exhibit drew large crowds.

While Kahlo enjoyed the social life in New York City, she found aspects of American culture distasteful. She was appalled at the inequalities she witnessed between the poor and the wealthy.

As Rivera's work grew in popularity, he received more commissions in the U.S. In 1932, he and Frida traveled to Detroit, where Rivera had been hired to paint a mural celebrating the auto industry. While in Detroit, Kahlo used her middle name "Carmen" instead of the Germanic-sounding "Frida" because of growing anti-German sentiment in the U.S.

In Detroit, the couple took a stand against anti-Semitism. They were booked in a hotel that refused to admit Jews. Rivera alerted the staff that because his wife was half Jewish, he and she would have to stay in another hotel. The management, horrified that so famous a couple would leave their establishment, begged them to stay, offering to reduce their rates. Kahlo and Rivera would not agree to stay until the management removed the ban on Jews. They did so.

Feeling less than welcome, Kahlo loathed her time in Detroit, and found the city gloomy and depressing.

In May 1932, still in Detroit, Kahlo learned that she was pregnant again. This time, she was determined to have the baby--but it was not to be. In July 1932, Kahlo suffered a miscarriage. She was devastated, but out of her terrible loss came a period of great productivity.

Her painting, Henry Ford Hospital, depicts Kahlo in a hospital bed, nude and bleeding, connected by a red ribbon to a fetus, as well as to a variety of symbolic objects. Rivera was impressed by his wife's creation, deeming it a masterpiece. This was the first in a series of unique, original, and, at times disturbing paintings done by Frida Kahlo that documented important events in her life.

In March of 1933, Kahlo and Rivera returned to New York City for Rivera's commissioned mural inside the RCA building. As always, Rivera was the center of attention, and Kahlo did not do much painting during this time. Rivera's mural, however, created a great deal of controversy. It more than hinted at communist themes, dominated by the color red, and depicting communist leader Vladimir Lenin.

Following the rejection of Rivera's mural by the sponsor, Nelson Rockefeller, Kahlo and her husband returned to Mexico, much to her delight. Diego Rivera, who enjoyed being in the States, was not as eager as his wife to return to their native country.

Upon their return to Mexico in late 1933, the couple moved into their new, double house. Rivera's house, the larger of the two, was painted blue and included a large studio. Kahlo's pink house, connected to her husband's by a bridge, was smaller, but also contained a studio.

The new house allowed Kahlo to indulge in several affairs--with both men and women-- by locking the door to the bridge to Rivera's house. Rivera didn't mind his wife's homosexual affairs, but would not tolerate her affairs with men. Those she hid carefully.

In 1934, Kahlo discovered, much to her shock, that Rivera was having an affair with her younger sister Cristina, who had often modeled for him. Stricken by the betrayal, Kahlo moved to an apartment. Adding to Kahlo's misery, she suffered another miscarriage that year, and was also hospitalized for an appendectomy.

By 1936, Kahlo had forgiven Rivera and Cristina and moved back into the blue and pink house. There she produced one of her most famous works, My Grandparents, My Parents, and I, in which she depicts herself and family members connected by a red ribbon.

During the late 1930s, Kahlo painted several self-portraits, many of which included animals such as birds and monkeys. Some biographers have theorized that these animals served as substitutes for the children Kahlo was unable to have.

In 1937, exiled Russian Communist leader Leon Trotsky came to Mexico seeking asylum from the government of Joseph Stalin. Rivera had lobbied the Mexican government to allow Trotsky to live in Mexico, where he sought protection from men hired by Stalin to assassinate him. Trotsky and his wife were allowed into Mexico and came to stay in the Casa Azul.

Although the Trotskys lived under heavy guard, Kahlo somehow managed to have a month-long affair with Leon Trotsky, using her sister Cristina's home for the trysts. Rivera found out about the affair in late 1938 and filed for divorce shortly thereafter.

Trotsky and his wife moved into an apartment, where Stalin's assassins finally tracked him down and killed him in August 1940.

By the late 1930s, Frida Kahlo gained fame as an artist in her own right. She began to sell her paintings (four of them to American actor Edward G. Robinson) and was granted an exhibition in a New York City gallery in 1938.

Reviewers characterized Kahlo's style as surrealism, a label she detested. Whereas surrealists' paintings had a dream-like quality, Kahlo insisted that her paintings represented not a dream, but her own view of reality.

The success of the New York exhibition led to another exhibition the following year in Paris. Kahlo's paintings were well-received and earned high praise from many, including artist Pablo Picasso, who attended the exhibit. One of Kahlo's paintings, a self-portrait titled The Frame, was purchased by the Louvre.

When Kahlo returned to Mexico, she moved back into the Casa Azul. She and Rivera were divorced in November 1939. During this period, Kahlo produced some of her most famous paintings, including The Two Fridas and Self-Portrait with Cropped Hair. Both paintings depict Kahlo's sense of rejection following the divorce.

Kahlo became increasingly depressed as she coped with the breakup of her marriage, as well as chronic pain from her old injuries. She began drinking heavily and family members became alarmed. During this time, Kahlo's paintings displayed a preoccupation with death.

After seeking medical treatment, Kahlo curbed her drinking. She and Rivera reunited after both realized that they still had feelings for one another. They remarried in December 1940. Getting back together with Rivera, Kahlo felt a sense of peace that enabled her to focus upon her work. She produced nearly 50 paintings during the 1940s.

Unfortunately, Kahlo developed numerous health problems, most of them a result of the crippling accident she had survived decades before. She had chronic back pain and a curvature of the spine which made walking difficult. A back surgery performed in 1946 was unsuccessful, forcing Kahlo to endure heavy plaster corsets to keep her spine in alignment.

As her condition worsened, Kahlo went from using a wheelchair to being permanently bedridden. Despite her suffering, she was happy to learn that her first one-woman show in Mexico would be held in April 1953. She was brought to the event in an ambulance and greeted visitors from a bed that had been carried into the gallery.

Kahlo's health continued to decline. A few months after her triumphant show, her right leg was amputated due to gangrene.

On July 6, 1954, family and friends threw a 47th birthday party for Kahlo at the Casa Azul. Although seriously ill with pneumonia, Kahlo was carried down to the party. Just a week later, on July 13, 1954, Frida Kahlo died in her sleep of a pulmonary embolism. Some have speculated that she died of a drug overdose, but that theory has never been substantiated.

Although grief-stricken, Diego Rivera was married a year after Kahlo's death. He died of a heart attack in his studio in November 1957. The Casa Azul, donated to the Mexican people by Rivera, opened as a museum in 1958.