The twentieth century was shaped by scientists, leaders, civil rights workers, entertainers, and so many more. Learn more about some of the influential people who molded the century, including both the heroes and the villains.

Many people wake up each day and notice the inequities of the world; yet most people do nothing about them because they think, "How much could one person do?" Each person on this list proves that one person can do a huge amount.

Whether they paint, draw, sculpt, write, or photograph, artists and writers make us look at the world in a different way.

They jumped, hit, ran, swam, boxed, wrestled, threw, and played better than anyone else. Follow the lives of these amazing athletes.

Leaving the ground far below them, these men and women traveled into the skies to explore areas as yet unknown.

The captains of industry shaped the 20th century by supplying jobs, creating products, and invigorating the economy. Learn more about these men and women who created fortunes.

Some people who made an impact on the 20th century did so not by good deeds, but rather by their crimes. These crimes included stealing, spying, rape, and mass murder.

We, as their audience, have been mesmerized by their Academy-Award-winning performances, roused by their innovative uses of both voice and instrument, and shocked by their daring exploits with magic. Entertainers help us escape our mundane, everyday lives by dazzling us with mastery of their craft.

From the creation of atomic bombs to Henry Ford's use of the assembly line, science and inventions dominated both the lives of individuals and the interactions of people around the world in the 20th century.

There have been 18 presidents who have led the United States within the 20th century. The country has changed and been molded under their leadership. Learn more about these influential men and their wives through these resources.

In many ways, the 20th century could still be considered a "man's world"; however, there were numerous women who changed the way the think, act, and live. Here are just a few of their stories.

Some were strong; others were weak. Some were good; others were bad. Learn more about the men and women around the world who were leaders during the 20th century.