The Tiananmen Square protests rocked China during the spring months of 1989, when thousands of Chinese university students took to the streets of Beijing to demand democratic reforms and an end to the Chinese communist party's 40-year monopoly on power.  The demonstrations lasted for months, without much resistance from the government. That changed during the early days of June 1989, when the Chinese government finally decided to use force to break up the demonstrators.

As the world's news cameras watched, thousands were killed at the hands of Chinese soldiers and government security forces. One image in particular--of a lone man standing defiantly in front of a column of tanks--came to be seen as a symbol of what seemed an epic and universal struggle for freedom and democracy.

Following the death of Mao Zedong (the founder of communist China) in 1976, a group of reformers emerged from within the ranks of the communist party. Though communists themselves, they wanted to loosen the tight grip the party had over economic and social policies, and to distance themselves, and the country, from Mao's strict ideology.

Among them was a man named Deng Xiaoping, who would groom his younger protege, Hu Yaobang, to become a prominent member of the communist party, and its eventual leader.

Hu was a staunch reformer who moved swiftly through the ranks. By 1982, he had become Party General Secretary and--with Deng as Supreme "Paramount" Leader--the second most powerful man in China. Hu encouraged a number of changes that included a broadening of the party's electoral process, holding party officials accountable for abuses of power, and increasing political autonomy for the Chinese-occupied territory of Tibet.

As Supreme Leader, Deng Xiaoping supported some of the reforms Hu proposed and even introduced many of his own. These included the reintroduction of some private enterprise, the breakup of communal lands, a reduction in military spending, and a more open attitude towards Western powers.

The End of Communism in China?

These reforms led to an unprecedented rise in consumerism and by the end of the 1980s, many young people came to regard communism as an outmoded system that no longer served their interests. They moved away from ideology and looked to the day when China might enter a period of Western affluence and even democracy.

However, despite his reforms, Deng still considered himself a staunch communist and had no intention of allowing the party to lose its grip on power. His reforms were meant to strengthen the communist state, not usher in its demise. He came to see calls for further reforms as unacceptable--a stance that would ultimately lead him to clash with his protege, Hu Yaobang, and with his own citizens, who became evermore vocal in their demands for change.

When Hu grew increasingly critical of the party and the corruption within its ranks, many older party officials, including Deng, decided they had had enough. They came to see Hu's influence among the youth as a threat to stability. The final straw came in the winter of 1986-87, when Hu sided with a student protest calling for democratic reforms. He was forced to resign in January of 1987 and made to apologize publicly for his views.

After his resignation, Hu faded from public life and consigned himself to relative obscurity, mainly engaging in calligraphy and the study of history. He would still engage in government affairs, but he no longer had any real power and his role in politics was now largely ceremonial.

Among the population, however, Hu's reputation as a reformist firebrand grew and he came to be seen as a symbol of the growing Chinese democracy movement. He suffered a heart attack on April 8, 1989 and died in the hospital on April 15 at the age of 73.

The government felt sure that Hu had faded from memory by the time of his death and planned a small, private funeral for him. However, the vast public show of support for Hu following his death surprised the regime's hardliners. Little did they know that the events of the following months would bear witness to the biggest crisis in the regime's 40-year history.

On April 16, 1989, the day after Hu's death, a group of student mourners organized a march to Tiananmen Square, located in the center of Beijing, China's capital. The following day, four thousand people marched to the square. They chanted slogans calling for democracy and an end to corruption and bureaucracy. An unarmed government security force known as the Public Security Bureau appeared at the square but did not interfere with the protests.

On Tuesday, April 18, several hundred students staged a sit-in in front of the Great Hall of the People, on the western side of Tiananmen Square. (The Great Hall houses the legislative and executive branches of the Chinese government.) The students wanted to present these officials with a seven-point petition that proposed an effort to end corruption, the curtailing of special privileges for government officials, freedom of speech, and increased funding for education. The proposal also asked for the government to honor Hu Yaobang's legacy and his contributions to reform and to the country at large.

The students were not chased away that day, and a group of delegates emerged from the Great Hall to receive the protesters' grievances. However, several thousand demonstrators left the square and marched west to an area housing many top government leaders. There, a scuffle with security forces resulted in minor injuries on both sides.

The students had all left Tiananmen Square by early the next morning. Yet they would not be deterred. Only a few hours later, determined to keep up the pressure on the government, close to three thousand demonstrators reentered the square. By evening, the group swelled to more than one hundred thousand people.

By the following day, April 20, several more scuffles ensued between demonstrators and security forces. Later that day the government declared the square closed from Friday until Saturday, April 22, to accommodate the funeral procession for Hu Yaobang. However, the closure of the square was not enforced and demonstrators remained there the whole night between Friday and Saturday, so as to be within the cordoned off area when the funeral began.

The Chinese government viewed Hu's funeral procession as a concession to the students. The hope was that giving Hu a high-profile funeral would appease the movement and bring about a swift end to the demonstrations. However, the demonstrators persisted with their demands for reform and continued to occupy the square, both during and after the funeral.

The lack of a heavy-handed response by security forces up to this point had convinced some of the students that they would remain relatively unscathed and that even members of the army might come to sympathize with their cause. However, many older Beijing residents felt differently and expressed concern at the increasing military presence in the area.

The demonstrations continued and grew through the remainder of April. By May 4, the protests had spread to at least five major Chinese cities and were by now the largest of their kind ever seen in the communist state's 40-year history. Government officials, however, continued to play down the protest in the official state-run media.

Zhao Ziyang, who had succeeded Hu Yaobang as head of the communist party in 1987, publicly expressed confidence that the demonstrations would eventually subside. They did not. And on May 13, hundreds of student protesters in Tiananmen Square committed themselves to an indefinite hunger strike.

May 15, 1989 marked an important day for the Chinese state. It was to be the first Sino-Soviet Summit held in 30 years and Soviet Premier Mikhail Gorbachev was slated to visit in what was considered a very high-profile event.

The Chinese government planned to hold official ceremonies in Tiananmen Square to welcome the Soviet leader. These plans had to be cancelled due to the protests--a severe embarrassment for the state. The state's official rhetoric, as expressed through state-run media, now became increasingly belligerent toward the demonstrators, calling for swift action against them.

Following a visit to the square by communist party leader Zhao Ziyang in a failed, last-ditch attempt to engage the students in a dialogue, martial law was finally declared on May 20, 1989. Chinese troops began moving toward the city center only to be stopped by makeshift barricades that had been set up by the demonstrators. Despite this effort to intimidate the students, the soldiers had clear orders not to fire on anyone.

The protests continued unabated through the rest of May. The party leadership, however, was heavily divided as to what action should be taken. Reformers wanted the government to make concessions and engage in further dialog with the protesters. Old-time hardliners, however, were calling for more aggressive tactics to break up the crowd. By June 2, 1989, the hard-liners won their case; it was agreed to end the protests by force.

On Friday, June 2, 1989, protesters began to notice busloads of troops and equipment being ferried into the city center. It became clear that these troops were meant to remain undetected so as to be placed at strategic positions for a final onslaught to break up the demonstrations.

At several locations, protestors managed to stop the buses, smashing windshields and slashing tires in an attempt to stop their advance. Onlookers later remarked that the soldiers appeared to be very young and inexperienced and were clearly frightened by the demonstrators. Many of them fled the scene.

Later that day, the government decided to send in more experienced troops to recover the buses and equipment. However, these attempts were largely unsuccessful and troops deployed tear gas against the demonstrators who were attempting to block their advance.

The next morning, June 3, the government began broadcasting warnings through loudspeakers that had been set up around Tiananmen Square. The crowds were told to disperse or face dire consequences. Anyone who remained in the square and did not go home would be taking his life into his own hands.

The demonstrators found no reason to heed the warnings as all previous attempts to disperse them had failed. It is difficult to know what other outcome the students might have expected, but until now they had been largely successful at standing their ground and saw no reason to assume they could not continue in this way. They could not have been more wrong.

Soldiers descended on the city center by the thousands throughout the day. Scuffles ensued between troops and demonstrators. Police were now urging foreigners to get off the streets wherever they found them; the implication being that no foreigners should witness what was about to unfold.

By the evening, troops and demonstrators were facing off all over the city. The soldiers fired warning shots and launched stun grenades, but the students stood their ground. By eleven that evening the soldiers were aiming and shooting at demonstrators, following the orders of their commanders.

The shooting continued throughout the night and by the morning of June 4, 1989, Tiananmen Square had been cleared.

Perhaps one of the most compelling moments of the demonstrations occurred the following day, on June 5, 1989. Even though the demonstrations had been broken up and the army was now in firm control of the city, one lone man engaged in an act of resistance that would captivate the world.

A foreign press camera rolled as a young, unidentified protester--known today only as "Tank Man"-- stood defiantly in the way of a column of tanks that was moving along Chang'an Avenue towards Tiananmen Square. The lead tank tried repeatedly to circumvent the man, with little success.

At one point, the man jumped on top of the tank and attempted to speak to the squadron inside. Soon after, shots rang out. The camera panned to observe a group of nearby demonstrators, who were dispersing in panic. When the camera panned back to the tanks, the young man had disappeared without a trace.

The identity and fate of Tank Man remain unknown. However, with this single act of dissent, Tank Man managed to capture the spirit of the demonstrations and became a symbol of the movement the world over.

On the evening of June 9, 1989, five days after the crackdown, Supreme Leader Deng Xiaoping appeared on state television to praise the army for its success in quelling the protests, which he labeled as counter-revolutionary acts designed to overthrow the communist regime.

The exact number of dead from the crackdown remains unknown. The Chinese government tried to play down the numbers, claiming a few hundred had perished, while amplifying the number of soldiers wounded or killed. Some government sources even went so far as to claim that no one had been killed at all during the crackdown. Other, less official, sources have claimed the number of deaths ran into the thousands.

Scores were arrested, especially from among those who had risen to leadership positions within the student movement. Many more managed to flee China to find refuge in the West.

Despite these popular protests for change, China remained a communist country.