What makes a building great? Many of the buildings and structures featured here are famous for their beauty. Others have become famous for their ingenuity or their historical significance. Some are famous because they stirred a storm of controversy. Are they masterpieces? You decide. From the Eiffel Tower to the newest skyscraper in Dubai, tall buildings and structures inspire awe and fascination. Here are facts, statistics, photos, and resources for the world's tallest man-made structures, including skyscrapers, observation towers, and communication towers. The famous architect Louis Sullivan said, "Form ever follows function." In these resources we look at engineering and design of functional structures such as bridges, dams, tunnels, and observation towers. Who says architecture has to be serious? Here's our round-up of buildings that are weird, silly, or just for fun. Have you seen a building that's really strange? Please do add it to our list. From historic mansions to masterpieces of modernism, private homes reveal the talents, and sometimes the eccentricities, of their designers. The homes in this collection are among the most famous and most recognizable around the world. Explore the lives of famous architects and see photos of their most important buildings. These resources include biographies and photo galleries for famous architects, builders, and designers from Alvar Aalto to Frank Lloyd Wright. You'll also find groupings of important architects and designers, arranged by topic. Explore architecture through the ages. These resources will give you an overview of architectural history, from prehistoric megaliths to modernist skyscrapers. Find photos and descriptions for  historic styles such as Baroque, Renaissance, and Neoclassical. These resources are your gateway world's greatest architecture, organized geographically. Find photos and articles for must-see buildings in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, the United Kingdom, Africa, India, North America, and other regions. Learn about cultural trends and building practices in far away places. Also find tools and tips for planning your own architecture trip. Architects design more than buildings. They also design outdoor spaces: plazas, parks, pedestrian malls, roadways, transportation centers, and entire communities. Follow these links for information about landscape architecture, city and town planning, urban design, and outdoor art. Despite the best laid plans of architects and engineers, great buildings can fall. Some are destroyed by earthquakes, fires, floods, and other natural disasters. Some structures are destroyed by deliberate acts such as the terrorist attacks on New York's World Trade Center. Finally, faulty design can lead to structural collapse. All architecture begins with belief in an idea, a theory, or a dream. These links explore a wide range of design philosophies, from ancient Eastern philosophies like Feng Shui to modernism and Bauhaus.