Next 
  Page | Previous 
  Page | Table 
  of Contents   Travis C. McDonald, Jr. Original Construction and Later Changes. Research prior to investigation 
  may have indicated the architect, builder or a building's date of construction. 
  In the absence of such information, architectural histories and field guides 
  to architectural style can help identify a structure's age through its form 
  and style.  Any preliminary date, however, has to be corroborated with
other physical or documentary facts. Dates given for stylistic
periods are general and tend to be somewhat arbitrary, with
numerous local variations. Overall form and style can also be
misleading due to subsequent additions and alterations. When the
basic form seems in conflict with the details, it may indicate a
transition between styles or that a style was simply upgraded
through new work.  The architectural investigation usually determines original
construction details, the chronology of later alterations, and
the physical condition of a structure. Most structures over fifty
years old have been altered, even if only by natural forces.
People living in a house or using a building for any length of
time leave some physical record of their time there, however
subtle.  A longer period of occupancy generally counts for greater
physical change. Buildings acquire a "historic
character" as changes are made over time.  Changes to architectural form over time are generally attributable to material 
  durability, improvement in convenience systems, and aesthetics. First, the durability 
  of building materials is affected by weathering, temperature and humidity, by 
  disasters such as storms, floods or fire, or by air pollution from automobiles 
  and industry. Second, changes in architectural form have always been made for 
  convenience' sake-fueled by technological innovations-as people embrace better 
  lighting, plumbing, heating, sanitation, and communication. People alter living 
  spaces to meet changing family needs. Finally, people make changes to architectural 
  form, features, and detailing to conform to current taste and style.  Next 
  Page | Previous 
  Page | Table 
  of Contents   How 
  Old Is Your House?  Love old houses? Ask questions & discuss ideas 
  in a live chat. The room is always open. 
 Get weekly updates via email
 This publication has been prepared pursuant to the National Historic Preservation 
  Act of 1966, as amended, which directs the Secretary of the Interior to develop 
  and make available information concerning historic properties. Technical Preservation 
  Services (TPS), Heritage Preservation Services Division, National Park Service 
  prepares standards, guidelines, and other educational materials on responsible 
  historic preservation treatments for a broad public.

