
 
 Travis C. McDonald, Jr.  General and Specialized Skills. The essential skill needed for 
  any level of investigation is the ability to observe closely and to analyze. 
  These qualities are ideally combined with a hands-on familiarity of historic 
  buildings-and an open mind! Next, whether acquired in a university or in a practical 
  setting, an investigator should have a good general knowledge of history, building 
  design history and, most important, understand both construction and finish 
  technologies.  But it is not enough to know architectural style and building
technology from a national viewpoint; the investigator needs to
understand regional and local differences as well.  While investigative skills are transferable between regions
and chronological periods, investigators must be familiar with
the peculiarities of any given building type and geographical
area.  Architectural survey and comparative fieldwork provides a
crucial database for studying regional variations in historic
buildings. For example, construction practices can reflect shared
experiences of widely diverse backgrounds and traditions within a
small geographical area. Contemporary construction practice in an
urban area might vary dramatically from that of rural areas in
the same region. Neighbors or builders within the same small
geographical area often practice different techniques of
constructing similar types of structures contemporaneously.
Reliable dating clues for a certain brick bond used in one state
might be unreliable for the same period in a different state.
Regional variation holds true for building materials as well as
construction.  Finally, even beyond regional and local variation, an
investigator needs to understand that each building has its own
unique history of construction and change over time. Form,
features, materials and detailing often varied according to the
tastes and finances of both builder and supplier; construction quality and design
were also inconsistent, as they are today.  Specialists on a Team. Because architectural
investigation requires a wide range of knowledge and many
different skills, various people are likely to interact on the
same project. While homeowners frequently execute small-scale
projects, more complex projects might be directed by a craftsman,
an architect or a conservator. For large-scale projects, a team
approach may need to be adopted, consisting of professionals
interacting with additional consultants. Consulting specialists
may include architectural historians, architectural conservators,
craftsmen, historic finish analysts, historians, archeologists,
architects, curators, and many others. The scope and needs of a
specific project dictate the skills of key players.  Architectural investigation often includes the related fields of landscape 
  and archeological investigation. Landscape survey or analysis by horticulturists 
  and landscape architects identify pre-existing features or plantings or those 
  designed as separate or complementary parts of the site. Both above and below-ground 
  archeology contribute information about missing or altered buildings, construction 
  techniques, evidence of lifestyle and material culture, and about the evolution 
  of the historic landscape itself.  Next 
  Page | Previous 
  Page | Table 
  of Contents   How 
  Old Is Your House?  Love old houses? Ask questions & discuss ideas 
  in a live chat. The room is always open. 
 Get weekly updates via email
 This publication has been prepared pursuant to the National Historic Preservation 
  Act of 1966, as amended, which directs the Secretary of the Interior to develop 
  and make available information concerning historic properties. Technical Preservation 
  Services (TPS), Heritage Preservation Services Division, National Park Service 
  prepares standards, guidelines, and other educational materials on responsible 
  historic preservation treatments for a broad public.

