Next 
  Page | Table 
  of Contents  If you have ever felt a sense of excitement and mystery going inside an old 
  building-whether occupied or vacant-it is probably because its materials and 
  features resonate with the spirit of past people and events. Yet excitement 
  about the unknown is heightened when a historic structure is examined architecturally, 
  and its evolution over time emerges with increasing clarity to reveal the lives 
  of its occupants. Architectural investigation is the critical first step in 
  planning an appropriate treatment-understanding how a building has changed over 
  time and assessing levels of deterioration.  Whether as a home owner making sympathetic repairs, a
craftsman or contractor replacing damaged or missing features, or
a conservator reconstituting wood or restoring decorative
finishes, some type of investigative skill was used to recognize
and solve an architectural question or explain a difficult aspect
of the work itself.  To date, very little has been written for the layman on the subject of architectural 
  investigation. This Preservation Brief thus addresses the often complex investigative 
  process in broad, easy-to-understand terminology. The logical sequence of planning, 
  investigation and analysis presented in this Brief is applicable to all buildings, 
  geographic locations, periods, and construction types. It is neither a "how 
  to" nor an exhaustive study on techniques or methodologies; rather, it 
  serves to underscore the need for meticulous planning prior to work on our irreplaceable 
  cultural resources.  Next 
  Page | Table 
  of Contents  How 
  Old Is Your House?  Love old houses? Ask questions & discuss ideas 
  in a live chat. The room is always open. 
 Get weekly updates via email
 This publication has been prepared pursuant to the National Historic Preservation 
  Act of 1966, as amended, which directs the Secretary of the Interior to develop 
  and make available information concerning historic properties. Technical Preservation 
  Services (TPS), Heritage Preservation Services Division, National Park Service 
  prepares standards, guidelines, and other educational materials on responsible 
  historic preservation treatments for a broad public.

