The architecture of Thomas Jefferson is sometimes overshadowed by the great statesman's other accomplishments. As a Founding Father and U.S. President, Jefferson helped shape the new nation. His avocation as a citizen architect gave the young United States some of its most iconic buildings. Mr. Jefferson was more than a President. Born: April 13, 1743 at Shadwell, Virginia Died: July 4, 1826, at his home, Monticello Education: Jefferson's apprenticeship was in law and not architecture. Nevertheless, he studied design through books, travel, and observation. Thomas Jefferson has been called not only Monticello's "gentleman farmer," but he was also a "gentleman architect," a common practice of the well-to-do before architecture became a licensed profession. Jefferson Designs: Influences on Jefferson's Architecture: Inspired by Jefferson:  When 20th century architect John Russell Pope developed plans for the Jefferson Memorial in Washington, D.C., he found inspiration from Jefferson's own designs. The domed memorial is often compared to Jefferson's home, Monticello. Quotation: "Architecture is my delight, and putting up and pulling down, one of my favorite amusements."--1824, Quotations on Architecture, (c)The Thomas Jefferson Foundation, Inc. All rights reserved. "I send by this conveiance designs for the Capitol. They are simple & sublime. More cannot be said. They are not the brat of a whimsical conception never before brought to light, but copied from the most precious the most perfect model of antient architecture remaining on earth; one which has received the approbation of near 2000 years, and which is sufficiently remarkable to have been visited by all travellers."--1786, Jefferson to James Currie, Quotations on Architecture, (c)The Thomas Jefferson Foundation, Inc. All rights reserved.  Learn More: Sources: "Thomas Jefferson" by Gordon Echols, International Dictionary of Architects and Architecture, Randall J. Van Vynckt, ed., St. James Press, 1993, pp. 433-437; Montpelier and Madison's Tomb and Monticello by Emily Kane, American Studies program, University of Virginia; Capitol Timeline, Commonwealth of Virginia; Club History, Farmington Country Club; History of the Rotunda, Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. Websites accessed April 26, 2013. What other architects were born in April? >>>