At 12:04 a.m. on March 24, 1989, the oil-tanker Exxon Valdez ran aground on Bligh Reef in Prince William Sound (Alaska), spilling 10.8 million gallons of crude oil. The lack of emergency preparedness and the spill's remote location slowed emergency response to the accident, which gave the oil time to spread out. The Exxon Valdez oil spill ultimately damaged over 1,300 miles of coastline and devastated local wildlife, making it one of the most damaging environmental disasters in history. Before its infamous accident, the Exxon Valdez was a three-year-old, single-hull, 987-foot-long by 166-foot-wide, oil supertanker that regularly delivered North Slope crude oil from Alaska to the West Coast of the United States. It carried a crew of nine plus the captain, 42-year-old Joseph Hazelwood. At 11:30 p.m. on March 22, 1989, an empty Exxon Valdez arrived at the Alyeska Marine Terminal near the small town of Valdez, Alaska, for refilling. At 5:05 the next morning, terminal crews began loading the tanker with crude oil.  Since filling an oil tanker with 53 million gallons (1.2 million barrels) of oil isn't a fast process, many crew members were given shore leave and thus headed to town. They were expected to be back in time to sail at 10 p.m. Captain Hazelwood also headed into town, leaving the Exxon Valdez at 10 a.m. He was busy throughout the day but is reported to have drunken several alcoholic beverages in the late afternoon and at least one around dinner time while waiting for a pizza to be made at the Pipeline Club. With pizza in hand, Captain Hazelwood and two of his crew members headed back to the Exxon Valdez via a taxi, arriving at 8:24 p.m. Upon arrival, they were all surprised to learn that the refilling had been completed early and thus they were to ship out an hour early -- at 9 p.m. At 9:12 p.m. on March 23, 1989, the Exxon Valdez slipped from its mooring, beginning what was supposed to be a five-day journey to Long Beach, California. Harbor pilot William Edward Murphy took the Exxon Valdez out of port and headed west, successfully navigating the ship through the dangerous Valdez Narrows, and then southwest through part of the Valdez Arm. Once they had reached Rocky Point, Murphy had Captain Hazelwood called back to the bridge -- the fact that Hazelwood wasn't on the bridge during this hazardous 14-mile journey was against company policy. When Captain Hazelwood returned to to the bridge at 11:10 p.m., Murphy smelled alcohol on Hazelwood but didn't question Hazelwood's command since he didn't see any obvious signs of inebriation. Murphy then disembarked at 11:24 p.m. On a normal trip, the Exxon Valdez would then continue in the outbound traffic lane, which headed southwesterly, through the Valdez Arm until reaching the more open body of water at the Prince William Sound. However, as it was common in this area for icebergs from the Columbia Glacier to block traffic lanes, it was not uncommon for ships to either move into the half-mile divide that separated the two shipping lanes or to even to go through that and into the opposing lane. At 11:25 p.m., a minute after Murphy departed, Captain Hazelwood reported to the Coast Guard's Vessel Traffic Center that the Exxon Valdez would likely need to move into the inbound traffic lane because of icebergs. Since there were no ships currently inbound, the Vessel Traffic Center gave approval for this move. From that message at 11:25 p.m. to 11:53 p.m., Captain Hazelwood was on the bridge but made some strange orders. He first ordered the Exxon Valdez to move southward, which would take the tanker into the inbound lane, but he never ordered a slowing of speed -- an essential component if trying to navigate around icebergs. At 11:39 p.m., Captain Hazelwood ordered the Exxon Valdez to be put on autopilot -- also not something one would do if trying to carefully navigate around icebergs. The ship continued heading directly south, passing through the separation zone and into the inbound lane. However, instead of turning southwest at this point, the Exxon Valdez continued to move southward; at 11:47 p.m., the tanker passed the southern border of the inbound lane -- something they were definitely not approved to do. At 11:52 p.m., Captain Hazelwood ordered "load program up," which was an automated way to make the ship gain speed. A minute later, Captain Hazelwood left the bridge, leaving Third Mate Gregory Cousins in charge of the bridge. Captain Hazelwood left directions with Cousins about when he should turn the Exxon Valdez back into the shipping lanes; however, this would have been a nearly impossible turn even for an experienced officer. Hazelwood should have stayed on the bridge.   Cousins, who had probably worked 18 hours straight, did not fully grasp the seriousness of their predicament. It wasn't until lookout Maureen Jones spotted a light coming from Bligh Reef off their starboard (right) bow -- when it should very clearly have been on their port (left) side -- that they knew they were in trouble. Cousins ordered for the ship to turn but the ship did not quickly respond -- it was either too late or the ship was still on autopilot. Cousins then called Captain Hazelwood to tell him of the impending danger and while they were on the phone, the Exxon Valdez hit the submerged Bligh Reef. It was 12:04 a.m. on March 24, 1989. Captain Hazelwood rushed up to the bridge and for 15 minutes desperately tried to get the ship off the rocks, but to no avail. The Exxon Valdez was stuck. Not only was it stuck, it had 600-feet of its hull breached and eight of its eleven cargo tanks ripped open. Oil was pouring out. Twenty-three minutes after grounding, Captain Hazelwood finally called the Traffic Center in Valdez to report the accident. At 3:19 a.m., it was estimated that the Exxon Valdez had already lost 5,796,000 gallons (138,000 barrels) of oil and was continuing to lose 840,000 gallons (20,000 barrels) of crude oil each hour. Time was of the essence. Booms were needed to place on the water's surface to trap the oil and lightering equipment was needed to transfer the remaining oil from the Exxon Valdez to another vessel. Unfortunately, there was no on-call emergency team ready to respond and the response barge was currently in the dry dock for repairs. The deep-sea booms and the lightering equipment also weren't easily accessible, buried under other equipment. It took hours to dig them out. At 2:30 p.m., nearly 14 1/2 hours after the accident, the rescue barge arrived at Bligh Reef. The thick oil slick, however, had already grown large and had started to move southward into the beautiful Prince William Sound. They didn't have enough booms to contain what was now a very large oil spill. By Saturday morning, March 25, the ever-growing oil slick, now estimated at 240,000 barrels, was still not contained. Plus, the Exxon Valdez remained precariously on Bligh Reef, in danger of either capsizing or splitting in half. Either scenario meant the possibility of the tanker's remaining 42,000,000 gallons (1,000,000 barrels) of oil releasing into the water. In an attempt to get the oil off the Exxon Valdez before one of these scenarios happened, the Exxon Baton Rouge sidled up to the Exxon Valdez in the hopes of lightering (i.e. transferring the oil). After only 10,000 barrels of oil were transferred, they shut the process down. Working with automatic pumps had proved too dangerous because of the precariousness of the Exxon Valdez; portable pumps were needed. Portable pumps had to be ordered. By this time, Exxon had stepped up, taking both responsibility for the disaster and control of the clean up. Exxon Shipping president Frank Iarossi, who led the clean-up effort, wanted to clean up the oil spill by using dispersants and burning. However, the use of both of these techniques were highly controversial. Using disperants meant flying planes over the growing oil slick and dumping chemicals that would break up the oil slick, removing it from the water's surface and "dispersing" it throughout the water. Ideally, tidal currents could then more easily take the oil out to sea. The problem was that the public didn't like the idea of dumping even more chemicals into the fragile Prince William Sound ecosystem. As debate raged over the possible use of dispersants, it also turned out that there wasn't enough on hand anywhere in the world that could clean up a spill this large. Another option was to burn the oil slick. To do this, the slick needed to be surrounded by fire-proof booms so that the fire wouldn't get out of control. However, they didn't have enough fire-proof booms to surround such a large oil slick. Thus, for the first three days of the disaster debates raged, while skimming was the only tool used for actually removing the oil. That, however, wasn't working well either since the skimmer boats would suck up oil but then had nowhere to deposit it. Four days after the Exxon Valdez accident (Monday, March, 27, 1989), a huge, windy storm blew through the area, grounding planes and spreading out the oil slick. The wind blew apart the boom that had been in place, allowing the oil slick not only to grow exponentially, but also allowed the oil to split into smaller patches. Plus, the winds had whipped the oil into a new, sludgy form called "mousse." The debates over dispersants and burning were now moot -- mousse could not be treated by either of those methods. Only the intensely slow process of skimming could work now. What had perhaps been containable the first three days, now turned into an insurmountable problem as this mousse oil began to hit beaches. Ultimately, workers went beach to beach, using power hoses to push the oil back into the water toward skimmers. The process was tedious and frustrating, because often the next day a wave would bring more oil onto the "clean" beach. The uncontained oil slick had spread into the heart of Prince William Sound, ultimately hitting 1,300 miles of beaches. This area had been known for its natural beauty and wildlife; the oil spill destroyed much of that. Thousands of dead birds were found washed up on beaches, covered with black oil. Fish and fish eggs were severely affected by the oil spill. Sea otters too died in large numbers, either from hypothermia or oil poisoning. Seals died from eating oil-infused food. Bears, deer, and bald eagles also died from eating food damaged by oil. Whales, too, washed ashore dead. The environmental catastrophe broke the hearts of millions of people worldwide as they watched the news and saw image after image of animals dying from the oil-soaked waters. A number of volunteers came to help. Veterinarians and volunteers worked around the clock to try to rescue animals. Those animals that were found still alive were not only covered in the black, tarry oil, many had eyes and noses burned from the oil's fumes, were in a state of shock, and had internal damage from the poisonous oil. Even when externally cleaned with Dawn liquid dishwashing detergent, many still died. Since animal carcases sink, it's hard to get an accurate toll of the damage done to Prince William Sound's wildlife. What is known is that oil devastated the entire area from the smallest plankton to gray whales to endangered species. In all, 10.8 million gallons of crude oil (the equivalent of 17 Olympic-sized swimming pools) leaked out of the Exxon Valdez. The accident, which should have been preventable in so many ways, highlighted the complacency and ill-preparedness of the entire oil industry. On June 23, 1989, the wreck of the Exxon Valdez was towed to a nearby island, fixed, and renamed the Sea River Mediterranean. It carried oil in the Atlantic for a while, banned from ever reentering Prince William Sound. Over the years, it changed names a number of times, ultimately being renamed the Oriental Nicety. In August 2012, the ship was taken to the Alang shipping yard in Gujarat, India, where it was dismantled for scrap. Captain Hazelwood was acquitted of operating a vessel under the influence of alcohol (he claimed he drank after the accident), but was found guilty of negligent discharge of oil. He was fined $50,000 and ordered to complete 1,000 hours of community service. Exxon, who spent $4.3 billion on clean-up and settlements, tried to stop the spill from spreading, but really wasn't prepared for such a large disaster. The clean-up process took years, officially being completed in 1992;  however, even 25-years later, there's still oil in Prince William Sound.  