Where Were You When You First Heard of the Space Shuttle Challenger H…Some events in history are so memorable that we remember the exact time and place in which we first heard of the event. Where were you on January 28, 1986 when you first heard that the Space Shuttle Challenger, carrying teacher Christa McAuliffe on board, had exploded? What was your reaction? 1981 - First Woman Appointed to the U.S. Supreme CourtOn September 25, 1981, Sandra Day O'Connor officially became the first woman to be a judge on the U.S. Supreme Court. 1980 - 1989 TimelineA year-by-year chronology of the 1980s. The Assassination of John LennonIt shocked the world when 25-year-old Mark David Chapman gunned down legendary Beatle John Lennon. Find out why and how Chapman did it. Bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 Over LockerbieOn December 21, 1988, Pan Am Flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, killing all 259 people on board as well as 11 on the ground. Though it was almost immediately evident that a bomb had caused the disaster, it took more than eleven years to bring anyone to trial. What happened to the plane? Why would someone plant a bomb on Flight 103?... Cabbage Patch KidsIn 1983, thousands of people across the U.S. stood in lines, camped outside, or even physically fought to get their hands on a Cabbage Patch Kids doll. What is a Cabbage Patch Kids doll and how did they get so popular? Discovery of the Titanic ShipwreckThe Titanic, a huge ocean-liner that had sunk in 1912, had remained lost at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean for 73 years before ocean explorer Robert Ballard found it in 1985. Learn more about how Ballard found the elusive wreck of the Titanic. The Fall of the Berlin WallOn November 9, 1989, the Berlin Wall came down. It was a sudden and surprising end to the Berlin Wall's 28-year history. Huge Poison Gas Leak in Bhopal, IndiaDuring the night of December 2-3, 1984, a storage tank containing methyl isocyanate (MIC) at the Union Carbide pesticide plant leaked gas into the densely populated city of Bhopal, India. It was one of the worst industrial accidents in history. ChernobylOn April 26th, 1986, reactor four at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant exploded, releasing massive amounts of radiation into the environment. The Chernobyl nuclear disaster killed 31 people shortly after the explosion and thousands more have, or are expected to, died from the long-term effects of radiation. Diana, Princess of WalesDiana, Princess of Wales was what some have called the People's Princess. Her life seemed like a fairytale until the realities of depression and a royal marriage were exposed. She spent much of her time helping comfort people who were dying and supporting causes that would end AIDS and the use of landmines. Her death not only shocked the world, it caused many to examine the extremes of paparazzi and the public's fascination with celebrities. E.T. Movie ReleasedThe movie E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial was a hit from the day it was released (June 11, 1982) and quickly became one of the most beloved movies of all time. The Exxon Valdez Oil SpillAt 12:04 a.m. on March 24, 1989, the oil supertanker Exxon Valdez hit the submerged Bligh Reef in Alaska, tearing open eight of its cargo tanks. Massive amounts of oil then spilled out, severely damaging the ecosystem of Prince William Sound. Intruder Enters Queen Elizabeth's BedroomEarly on Friday morning, July 9, 1982, Queen Elizabeth II woke to find a strange man sitting at the end of her bed.  Her calls for help were left unanswered. Michael Jackson Releases ThrillerOn November 30, 1982, Michael Jackson released his album Thriller, which went on to become the best-selling album of all time. A year later, Jackson's Thriller video aired on MTV, changing the way people thought of music videos. Learn more about Michael Jackson's Thriller. Mt. St. Helens EruptionThough the volcano had given warning, scientists and onlookers were still surprised when Mt. St. Helens erupted on May 18, 1980. The avalanches, mud flows, and blast left only death and destruction behind. Find out more about the 1980 eruption of Mt. St. Helens. Pac-ManIn 1980, Pac-Man was released, changing video games forever. Find out who invented Pac-Man and what pizza had to do with it. Also discover what's on the final screen of Pac-Man - yes, someone actually finished all 255 levels! Reagan Assassination AttemptOn March 30, 1981, 25-year-old John Hinckley Jr. opened fire on U.S. President Ronald Reagan just outside the Washington Hilton Hotel. President Reagan was hit by one bullet, which punctured his lung. Find out more about the Reagan assassination attempt. Rubik's CubeIt seemed simple enough. You would pick up the Rubik's Cube and turn it a few times. After a couple of hours, you realized you were mesmerized by the puzzle and yet no closer to solving it. This exact situation happened to millions of people in 1980 as the Rubik's Cube became an obsession around the world. Space Shuttle Challenger DisasterOn Tuesday, January 28, 1986, the Space Shuttle Challenger exploded only 73 seconds after lift-off from the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Florida. The disaster was one of the defining moments of the 20th century and exposed many problems within the U.S. space program. What Was Gorbachev's Policy of Glasnost?Glasnost, which translates to openness in English, was General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev's policy for a new, open policy in the Soviet Union where people could freely express their opinions. What Was Gorbachev's Policy of Perestroika?Perestroika, which in English translates to "restructuring," was General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev's program to restructure the Soviet economy in an attempt to revitalize it. Tiananmen Square MassacreIn the spring of 1989, students in China came out in the thousands to protest in Beijing's Tiananmen Square. The government tolerated the protests for several months before initiating a bloody crackdown that began on June 2, 1989. In an iconic picture, one man (now known as Tank Man) stood defiantly in front of a column of tanks. Learn more about the Tiananmen Square massacre.