
 

The Titanic carried passengers from all walks of life.  Tickets were sold to first, second, and third class passengers; the latter group largely consisting of immigrants seeking a better life.  Famous first class passengers included the Astors, the Strausses, J. Bruce Ismay, and Benjamin Guggenheim. 
 
 

People around the world were shocked when they heard that the “unsinkable” Titanic had sunk. They wanted to know the details of the disaster. Yet, however much the survivors could share, theories about how and why the Titanic sank would remain unsubstantiated until the wreckage of the great ship could be found. There was just one problem -- no one was sure exactly where the Titanic had sunk.
 
 

By 1974, Ballard had received two doctoral degrees (marine geology and geophysics) from the University of Rhode Island and had spent a lot of time conducting deep water dives in a manned submersible he helped design, called Alvin. During subsequent dives in 1977 and 1979 near the Galapagos Rift, Ballard helped discover hydrothermal vents. More importantly, though, were the amazing plants that grew around these vents; it was the scientific study of these plants that led to the discovery of chemosynthesis, a process in which plants use chemical reactions rather than sunlight to get energy.
 

Yet, however many shipwrecks Ballard explored and however much of the ocean floor he mapped, Ballard never forgot about the Titanic. Ballard has said, “I always wanted to find the Titanic. That was a Mt. Everest in my world -- one of those mountains that had never been climbed.”*
 
 

Ballard, who had a history working with the U.S. Navy, decided to ask them to fund his expedition. The Navy did decide to fund the project, but not because they had a vested interest in finding the Titanic; instead, the Navy wanted Ballard to create the technology needed to help them find and investigate the wreckage of two nuclear submarines (the USS Thresher and the USS Scorpion) that had been mysteriously lost in the 1960s. 
 

Ballard’s search for the Titanic provided a nice cover story for the Navy, who wanted to keep their search for their lost submarines a secret from the Soviet Union. Amazingly, Ballard maintained the secrecy of his mission even as he built the technology, used it to find and explore the remains of the USS Thresher, and the remains of the USS Scorpion. Plus, while Ballard was investigating these wreckages, he learned more about debris fields, which gave him an idea as to how to find the Titanic. 
 

Done with his secret mission, Ballard was finally able to turn to his search for the Titanic. However, while other teams had spent months looking in vain for the Titanic, Ballard now had only two weeks for his search.
 
 

While previous expeditions had used close sweeps of the ocean floor to search for the Titanic, Ballard decided to conduct mile-wide sweeps with the hope of being able to cover more area.  Ballard was able to do this for two reasons. First, after examining the wreckage of the two submarines, he discovered that ocean currents often swept lighter pieces of the wreck downstream, thus leaving a long debris trail. Secondly, Ballard had engineered a new unmanned submersible (Argo) that could explore wider areas, dive deeper, stay underwater for many weeks, and deliver crisp and clear pictures of what it found. This meant that Ballard and his team could stay on board the Knorr and monitor the images from Argo, hoping to find small, man-made pieces of debris.
 

The Knorr arrived in the area on August 22, 1985 and began sweeps of the area using Argo. In the early morning hours of September 1, 1985, the first glimpse of the Titanic in 73 years appeared on Ballard’s screen.  Exploring 12,000 feet below the ocean’s surface, the Argo relayed the image of one of the Titanic’s boilers embedded within the sandy surface of the ocean’s floor.  The team on the Knorr was ecstatic about the discovery, although the realization that they were floating atop the graves of nearly 1500 individuals brought a somber tone to their celebration.
 

The expedition proved to be instrumental in shedding light on the Titanic’s sinking.  Prior to the discovery of the wreckage, there was some belief that the Titanic had sunk in one piece.  The 1985 images did not give researchers definitive information on the ship’s sinking; however, it did establish some basic foundations that countered early myths.
 
 

Since 1985, there have been several dozen expeditions to the Titanic.  Many of these expeditions have been controversial since salvagers brought up several thousand artifacts from the ship’s remains.  Ballard has been widely outspoken against these efforts, claiming that he felt the ship deserved to rest in peace.  During his two initial expeditions, he decided not to bring any discovered artifacts to the surface.  He felt that others should honor the sanctity of the wreckage in a similar fashion.
 

The most proliferate salvager of Titanic artifacts has been RMS Titanic Inc.  The company has brought many notable artifacts to the surface, including a large piece of the ship’s hull, passenger luggage, dinnerware, and even documents preserved in oxygen-starved compartments of steamer trunks.  Due to negotiations between its predecessor company and the French government, the RMS Titanic group cannot sell the artifacts; however, they can put them on display and charge admission to recoup expenses and create profit.  The largest exhibition of these artifacts today is located in Las Vegas, Nevada at the Luxor Hotel.
 
 
 

An expedition in August 2012, revealed that increased human activity has caused the ship to break down at a faster rate than previously expected.  Ballard has a plan to slow the process of degradation – painting the Titanic while it remains 12,000 feet below the ocean’s surface.  
 

The discovery of the Titanic was a momentous accomplishment but now the world is conflicted about how to care for this historical wreck.
 

* Quote by Dr. Robert Ballard from National Geographic’s Titanic: Ballard’s Secret Mission (2008).
