1910-1919 TimelineA year-by year look at the second decade of the 20th century. 1918 Spanish Flu PandemicIn three waves, the Spanish flu spread quickly, killing an estimated 50 million to 100 million people around the world. Christmas Truce at the World War I FrontSomething surprising occurred on the front for Christmas in 1914.  In one of the truest acts of goodwill toward men, soldiers from both sides set aside their weapons and hatred and agreed to a Christmas truce. First Battle of the MarneThe World War I's First Battle of the Marne, fought just outside of Paris from September 6-12, 1914, halted the German advance, saved Paris, saw the beginnings of trench warfare, and ended all hope of a short war. Learn more about the Battle of the Marne. First Crossword PuzzleOn December 12, 1913, the very first crossword puzzle, created by Arthur Wynne, was published in the New York World newspaper. Henry Ford and the Assembly LineOn December 1, 1913, Henry Ford introduced the first automobile assembly line at his Highland Park plant in Michigan. The assembly line significantly shortened the production process, thus enabling Ford to make his Model T cheap enough to become the car for the masses. Mata HariMata Hari was an exotic dancer and courtesan, killed by the French for espionage during WWI. Oreo Cookie First IntroducedSince Oreo cookies debuted in 1912, over 362 billion have been sold, making them the best-selling cookie in the United States. The Mona Lisa Was Stolen!It was unbelievable - someone stole the most famous painting in the world. Follow this two year long caper that shocked the world. "Over There"On the same morning that newspapers announced the United States' declaration of war in 1917, George M. Cohan wrote one of the most famous songs of World War I, called 'Over There.' Find the story behind the song as well as the lyrics to 'Over There.' Personal Income Tax Introduced in U.S.After the ratification of the 16th Amendment to the Constitution in 1913, the U.S. federal government enacted its first, permanent personal income tax. Rasputin MurderedBecause Rasputin, a peasant who claimed powers of healing and prediction, had the ear of Russian Tsarina Aleksandra, many believed Rasputin was "the dark force" that was ruining Mother Russia. On the night of December 16-17, 1916, several members of the aristocracy attempted to murder the holy man. Though the plan was simple, the conspirators found that Rasputin would be very difficult to kill. Red BaronBaron Manfred von Richthofen liked to fly in a blazing red airplane and shoot down plane after plane.  With 80 credited victories, Baron Manfred von Richthofen, the Red Baron, defied the odds and became a legend in the air. Sinking of the LusitaniaOn May 7, 1915, the British passenger ship, the Lusitania, was sunk by a German U-boat. The high death toll shocked the world and the loss of American citizens swayed public opinion in the United States in favor of joining World War I. Sinking of the TitanicOn the night of April 14, 1912, the luxurious ocean liner Titanic hit an iceberg. Just over two hours later, the Titanic sank, losing 1,517 lives. Find out the full story of the sinking of the Titanic. Triangle Shirtwaist Factory FireThe fire at the Triangle Waist Company factory in New York City on March 25, 1911 killed 146 workers. The large number of deaths exposed the dangerous conditions in high-rise factories and prompted the creation of new building, fire, and safety codes around the United States. Woodrow Wilson's 14 Points SpeechOn January 8, 1918, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson gave his "14 Points" speech in which he outlined ways to peacefully end World War I as well as how to keep another such war from occurring again. The Panama CanalAfter decades of work and many difficulties along the way, the Panama Canal officially opened on August 15, 1914. The newly built Panama Canal, which uses locks to transport ships between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, became an economical and safe shortcut that continues to be a great benefit to world trade. Find out how it was constructed. The Assassination of Archduke Franz FerdinandOn June 28, 1914, 19-year-old Gavrilo Princip fired three shots at Austro-Hungarian Archuduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife, Sophie, while they visited Sarajevo. Ferdinand died minutes later and the assassination became the spark that ignited World War I.