The HolocaustWhether you are just beginning to learn about the Holocaust or you are looking for more in-depth stories about the subject, this page is for you. You will find basics such as a timeline, a glossary, a map, and pictures plus more in-depth articles on such topics as the yellow star, ghettos, camps, resistance, and much more. Holocaust FactsHow many people were killed in the Holocaust? What does the word Shoah mean? What was the largest Nazi concentration camp? Learn the answers to these questions plus much more through these 33 facts that everyone should know about the Holocaust. Holocaust PicturesA huge collection of pictures of the Holocaust, including pictures of the concentration camps, death camps, prisoners, children, ghettos, displaced persons, Einsatzgruppen (mobile killing squads), Hitler, and other Nazi officials. Concentration and Death Camps MapA Holocaust map of Eastern Europe showing the locations of Nazi death and concentration camps. Abba Kovner and Resistance in the Vilna GhettoIn the Vilna Ghetto and in the Rudninkai Forest, Abba Kovner, only 25 years old, led resistance fighters against the murderous Nazi enemy. Aktion ErntefestOn November 3, 1943, the Nazis committed simultaneous acts of mass murder of approximately 43,000 Jewish men, women, and children in three remaining camps in the Generalgouvernement (large area in Poland) - Trawniki, Poniatowa, and Majdanek. The code name for this operation was Erntefest (Harvest Festival). Auschwitz PicturesAuschwitz was the largest of the Nazi concentration camps. It was a place of forced labor and mass murder. No collection of pictures can show the horrors that occurred within Auschwitz, but perhaps this collection of historical pictures of Auschwitz will at least tell part of the story. Babi YarIn retaliation for explosions in downtown Kiev, the Nazis created a place of mass murder in the ravine named Babi Yar. Books About the Holocaust for ChildrenAn overview of several children's books about the Holocaust. Dachau PicturesThe Dachau Concentration Camp was one of the first camps established by the Nazis in 1933. At first, the camp only housed political prisoners, but later Jews, Gypsies, Jehovah's Witnesses, homosexuals and others were sent to Dachau. Although Dachau was not an extermination camp, tens of thousands of people died from malnutrition, illness,... Death MarchesAs World War II drew to a close, the Nazis evacuated their conentration camps and forced the prisoners on long marches - death marches. Gypsies and the HolocaustThe Gypsies of Europe were registered, sterilized, ghettoized, and then deported to concentration and death camps by the Nazis. Approximately 250,000 to 500,000 Gypsies were murdered during the Holocaust - an event they call the Porajmos. Hidden ChildrenAfter having been forced to wear the yellow badge, forced out of school, taunted and attacked by others their age, disallowed from parks and other public places, Jewish children felt the persecution. Some Jewish children went into hiding to escape the increasing persecution and, most importantly, the deportations. Find out more about hidden... History of the SwastikaThe swastika is an extremely powerful symbol. Though the Nazis used it to murder millions of people, for centuries it had positive meanings. What is the history of the swastika? Does it now represent good or evil? Holocaust GlossaryWhen studying the Holocaust, one comes across numerous terms in many different languages. This Holocaust glossary is here to help you understand these terms. KristallnachtOn November 9, 1938, Nazi Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels announced a government-sanctioned reprisal against the Jews. Synagogues were ravaged and then burned. Jewish shop windows were broken. Jews were beaten, raped, arrested, and murdered. Throughout Germany and Austria, the pogrom rampaged. Kurt Gerstein - A German Spy in the SSAn anti-Nazi, Kurt Gerstein never intended to be a witness to the Nazi murder of the Jews. Yet he joined the SS and soon saw, first-hand, gassings at Belzec. Why did an anti-Nazi join the SS? What did Gerstein do with his knowledge of the Final Solution? Lodz GhettoThroughout Europe, Jews were crowded into ghettos before being systematically murdered in the death camps. Follow the history of the ghetto in Lodz, Poland. Madagascar PlanBefore the Nazis decided to murder European Jewry in gas chambers, they considered the Madagascar Plan - a plan to move four million Jews from Europe to the island of Madagascar. Museum of Jewish Heritage: A Living Memorial to the HolocaustThe Museum of Jewish Heritage, located in Manhattan's Battery Park in New York, is a fantastic museum dedicated to the Holocaust. Find out how to plan your visit and what you will find inside the museum. Our Turn to RememberWhile survivors have fought for decades to get the world to learn and remember the Holocaust, many of the youth today think it is too disgusting to think about or are afraid to learn about it because they don't want to cry. This is a letter to the youth of today imploring them to learn and to remember this horrific tragedy in our history. Prisoners Who Were KilledWhen the Allies liberated the Nazi concentration camps near the end of World War II, they found dead bodies everywhere. The Nazis, unable to destroy all the evidence of the horrors perpetrated in the concentration camps, left corpses on trains, in barracks, outside, in mass graves, and disgustingly, even in a latrine. These pictures are a witness to the horrors perpetrated during the Holocaust. SS RanksHave you ever been a bit confused by the titles of Nazi officials? This page offers a listing of Nazi SS ranks and their Western equivalents. Sterilization in Nazi GermanySix months after Hitler became Chancellor of Germany, the first German compulsory sterilization law was created. Why did the Nazis do this and who did they sterilize? Struma -- The Boat That Never Made ItAfraid of becoming victims of the horrors being perpetrated in Eastern Europe, 769 Jews attempted to flee to Palestine on board the Struma.  But, instead of finding freedom, they found a world that didn't want to take responsibility for them, a world that cast them out, defenseless, into the raging seas. The Holocaust on About.comYour portal to everything about the Holocaust -- articles, resources, photographs, biographies, maps, and more. The Layout of the Sobibor Death CampA drawing and explanation of the layout of the Sobibor Death Camp. The Majdanek Concentration and Death CampThe Majdanek concentration camp, located approximately three miles from the center of the Polish city of Lublin, was the second largest Nazi concentration camp during the Holocaust. Learn more about how this the Majdanek camp was established and why it never reached the expected 250,000 capacity. The Memorial at the Sobibor Death CampDuring a trip to Eastern Europe, I visited what remains of the Sobibor Death Camp. View pictures from my visit and discover my feelings about what I found. The New England Holocaust Memorial in BostonThe New England Holocaust Memorial, located just off the Freedom Trail in Boston, s Massachusetts, consists mainly of six, tall pillars of glass. The memorial is definitely worth a visit. Find out more about the Holocaust Memorial in Boston and how to find it. The Sobibor Death CampThe Sobibor Death Camp, located in Sobibor, Poland, was the second of three death camps to be established as part of Aktion Reinhard. Within the Sobibor Death Camp, in operation for only eighteen months, at least 250,000 men, women, and children were murdered. Only 48 Sobibor prisoners survived the war. The Sobibor UprisingAlthough the difficulties seemed insurmountable and success improbable, the Jews of the Sobibor death camp attempted a revolt. They made a plan and attacked their captors, but axes and knives were little match for the SS's machine guns. How and why did they come to the decision to revolt? The Yellow StarThe yellow star, inscribed with the word 'Jude'" has become a symbol of Nazi persecution. Discover the history of the badge and learn how the visual labeling of Jews led to organized persecution. Tragedy of the St. LouisIn 1939, over 900 Jews tried to escape persecution and death in Germany by boarding as ship, the St. Louis, headed for Cuba. They thought they had the proper papers to enter Cuba, but government policies changed while they were en route. Find out what happened on this voyage of the damned. Visiting the U.S. Holocaust Memorial MuseumThe United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM), located in Washington DC, is a wonderful museum and definitely worth a visit. Learn more about the museum and how best to plan your trip. Wannsee ConferenceOn January 20, 1942, fifteen men joined together in Wannsee, Germany to plan the implementation of the "Final Solution" against the Jews. Find out what happened at this conference that decided the fate of millions. A Book Review of Exodus 1947In her book, Exodus 1947: The Ship that Launched a Nation, Ruth Gruber documents in text and photographs the journey of the refugees aboard the Exodus, from their arrival in Palestine to their forced return to Hamburg, Germany. Movie Review of Jakob the LiarThe movie Jakob the Liar is based on the novel of the same name, written by Jurek Becker. The storyline of the movie is about a man named Jakob, who lives in an unnamed ghetto during the Holocaust. Jakob must decide whether or not to keep up a pretense that has given hope to the ghetto residents. Yom HashoahYom Hashoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, is a day set aside for all of us to remember and learn about the horrors of the Holocaust. A Movie Review of Apt PupilThe movie Apt Pupil, starring Sir Ian McKellen and Brad Renfro, adapts a Stephen King novella into a full-length film. The story presents an aging, hiding Nazi being confronted by a high school student obsessed with the gruesome details of the Holocaust. A Movie Review of Life Is BeautifulCan a comedy about the Holocaust not belittle the topic? Roberto Benigni (the writer, director, and actor) found a way to create a comedic masterpiece about the Holocaust that touches your heart - not only do your cheeks hurt from smiling/laughing, but your eyes burn from the tears. Find out more about the Academy Award winning movie, Life Is Beautiful. A Movie Review of Long Way HomeThe story of the Holocaust and its survivors does not end with liberation in 1945. Actually, for survivors, the Holocaust has never ended. This movie, The Long Way Home, continues the story of the survivors during the harrowing, yet heroic and inspirational, period of 1945 to 1948. A Movie Review of Mr. DeathThe movie Mr. Death is a documentary about Fred Leuchter, a man who tried to prove that there were no gas chambers at Auschwitz. Trzebinia PicturesJust under 12 miles (19 km) from Auschwitz, the Nazis set up a sub-camp in the town of Trzebinia in 1944. The prisoners who were taken to Trzebinia were sent as forced laborers in the town's ammunition factories. Adolf Eichmann PicturesA collection of pictures of Nazi official Adolf Eichmann, the architect of the Final Solution, including several from his 1961 trial. Einsatzgruppen PicturesThe Einsatzgruppen were German mobile killing units that operated within German-occupied territory after Germany invaded the Soviet Union in 1941. The Einsatzgruppen rounded up Jews, Gypsies, the disabled, Communists, and prisoners of war and then murdered them.
people were slaughtered. These pictures show the Einsatzgruppen preparing their...