
 

The new democracy was primarily composed of the following:
 
 

With Hitler as leader, the Nazi Party gained over 100 seats in the Reichstag by 1930 and was viewed as a significant party within the German government.  Much of this success can be attributed to the party's propaganda leader, Josef Goebbels.
 
 
Hitler gained over 2 million votes in the run-off, or approximately 36% of the total votes.  Hindenburg only gained 1 million votes on his previous count but it was enough to give him 53% of the total electorate -- enough for him to be elected to another term as president of the struggling republic.  
 
 
The following month, Papen offered his former supporter, Hitler, the position of Vice Chancellor.  By this point, Hitler realized that he could not manipulate Papen and refused to accept the position.  Instead, he worked to make Papen's job difficult and aimed to enact a vote of no confidence.  Papen orchestrated another dissolution of the Reichstag before this could occur.
 
In the next Reichstag election, the Nazis lost 34 seats.  Despite this loss, the Nazis remained powerful. Papen, who was struggling to create a working coalition within the parliament, was unable to do so without including the Nazis.  With no coalition, Papen was forced to resign his position of chancellor in November of 1932.  
 
Hitler saw this as another opportunity to promote himself into the position of chancellor; however, Hindenburg instead appointed Kurt von Schleicher.  Papen was dismayed by this choice as he had attempted in the interim to convince Hindenburg to reinstate him as chancellor and allow him to rule by emergency decree.
 
 
Schleicher, upon discovering Papen's deceit, went to Hindenburg to request the President order Papen to cease his activities.  Hindenburg did the exact opposite and encouraged Papen to continue his discussions with Hitler, as long as Papen agreed to keep the talks a secret from Schleicher.  
 
A series of meetings between Hitler, Papen, and important German officials were held during the month of January.  Schleicher began to realize that he was in a tenuous position and twice asked Hindenburg to dissolve the Reichstag and place the country under emergency decree.  Both times, Hindenburg refused and on the second instance, Schleicher resigned.
 
 
As part of the appointment negotiations, Hindenburg guaranteed Hitler that four important cabinet posts could be given to Nazis.  As a sign of his gratitude and to offer reassurance of his professed good faith to Hindenburg, Hitler agreed to appoint Papen to one of the posts.
 
Despite Hindenburg's misgivings, Hitler was officially appointed as chancellor and sworn in at noon on January 30, 1933.  Papen was named as his vice-chancellor, a nomination Hindenburg decided to insist upon to relieve some of his own hesitation with Hitler's appointment.  Longtime Nazi Party member Hermann Goring was appointed in the dual roles of Minister of the Interior of Prussia and Minister Without Portfolio.  Another Nazi, Wilhelm Frick, was named Minister of the Interior.
 
