
 
In the years following his appointment, Hitler led a reign of terror that embroiled many millions in the Second World War and murdered an estimated 11 million people during the Holocaust.
 
Hitler promised that the Third Reich would reign for 1,000 years; it only lasted 12.
 
 
The 3,000-square-foot underground bunker consisted of two levels and 18 rooms; Hitler resided on the lower level.  The structure was an expansion project of the Chancellery’s air raid shelter, which had been completed in 1942 and located under the building’s diplomatic reception hall.  Hitler contracted Nazi architect Albert Speer to build an additional bunker under the Chancellery’s garden, which was located in front of the reception hall.
 
The new structure, the Führerbunker (schematic), was officially completed in October 1944; however, it underwent several upgrades after that date, such as reinforcement and the addition of new security features.  The bunker had its own electricity feed and water supply.
 
 
Hitler also decorated his personal quarters with a portrait of Frederick the Great, which witnesses report he stared at on a daily basis to steel himself for the continued fight against outside forces.
 
Despite the attempts of Hitler and his staff to create a more normal living environment in their underground locale, the strain of this situation could not be ignored.  The electricity in the bunker intermittently flickered and the sounds of war reverberated throughout the structure as the Russian advance grew nearer.  The air was stuffy and oppressive.
 
During the final months of the war, Hitler controlled the German government from this dismal lair.  The bunker’s occupants maintained access to the outside world via telephone and telegraph lines.  High level German officials made periodic visits to conduct meetings on items of importance related to the government and military efforts.  Visitors included Hermann Göring and SS Leader Heinrich Himmler, among several others.  
 
From the bunker, Hitler continued to dictate German military movements but was unsuccessful in his attempt to stop the forward march of Russian troops as they approached Berlin.
 
Despite the claustrophobic and stale atmosphere of the bunker, Hitler rarely left its protective atmosphere.  He made his last public appearance on March 20, 1945, when he surfaced to award the Iron Cross to a group of Hitler Youth and SS men.
 
 
On April 20th, 1945, Hitler’s 56th and final birthday, Hitler hosted a small gathering of German officials to celebrate the occasion.  The event was overpowered by the imminence of defeat but those in attendance tried to put on a brave face for their Führer.  Officials in attendance including Himmler, Göring, Reich Foreign Minister Joachim Ribbentrop, Reich Minister of Armaments and War Production  Albert Speer, Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels and Hitler’s personal secretary Martin Bormann.  Several military leaders also attended the celebration, among them were Admiral Karl Dönitz, General Field Marshall Wilhelm Keitel, and recently appointed Chief of the General Staff, Hans Krebs.
 
The group of officials attempted to convince Hitler to evacuate the bunker and flee to his villa in Berchtesgaden; however, Hitler put up great resistance and refused to leave.  In the end, the group gave in to his insistence and abandoned their efforts.   
 
A few of his most devoted followers decided to remain with Hitler in the bunker. Bormann remained along with Goebbels.  The latter’s wife, Magda, and their six children also chose to remain in the bunker rather than evacuate. Krebs also remained below ground.  
 
 
Three days after the gathering, Göring telegraphed Hitler from the villa at  Berchtesgaden.  Göring asked Hitler if he should assume leadership of Germany based on Hitler’s fragile state and the decree of June 29, 1941 that placed Göring in the position of Hitler’s successor.  Göring was startled to receive a reply penned by Bormann that accused Göring of high treason.  Hitler agreed to drop the charges if Göring resigned all of his positions.  Göring agreed and was placed on house arrest the following day.  He would later stand trial in Nuremberg.
 
Upon leaving the bunker, Himmler took a step that was even brasher than Göring’s attempt to seize power.  On April 23, the same day as Göring’s telegram to Hitler, Himmler began movements to negotiate surrender with U.S. General Eisenhower.  Himmler’s attempts did not come to fruition but word reached Hitler on April 27.  According to witnesses, they had never seen the Führer so infuriated.
 
Hitler ordered Himmler to be located and shot; however, when Himmler could not be found, Hitler ordered the execution of SS-General Hermann Fegelein, Himmler’s personal liaison who was stationed in the bunker.  Fegelein was already on bad terms with Hitler, as he had been caught sneaking out of the bunker the previous day.  
 
 
 
Braun, an attractive young photography assistant when they met, worshipped Hitler without fail.  Although he is reported to have encouraged her to leave the bunker, she vowed to stay with him until the end.
 
Shortly after Hitler married Braun, he dictated his last will and political statement to his secretary, Traudl Junge.   
 
Later that day, Hitler learned that Benito Mussolini had died at the hands of Italian partisans.  It is believed that this was the final push towards Hitler’s own death the following day.  
 
Shortly after learning about Mussolini, Hitler is reported to have asked his personal physician, Dr. Werner Haase, to test some of the cyanide capsules he had been given by the SS.  The test subject would be Hitler’s beloved Alsatian dog, Blondi, who had given birth to five puppies earlier that month in the bunker.  The cyanide test was successful and Hitler was reported to have been rendered hysterical by Blondi’s death.    
 
 
After a meeting with his staff, Hitler and Braun ate their final meal with his two secretaries and the bunker’s cook.  Shortly after 3 pm, they said goodbye to the staff in the bunker and retired to their private chambers.  Although there is some uncertainty surrounding the exact circumstances, historians believe that the pair ended their lives by swallowing cyanide while sitting on a couch in the sitting room.  For added measure, Hitler also shot himself in the head with his personal pistol.  
 
Following their deaths, Hitler and Braun’s bodies were wrapped in blankets and then carried up into the Chancellery garden.  One of Hitler’s personal assistants, SS Officer Otto Günsche doused the bodies in gasoline and burned them, per Hitler’s final orders.  Günsche was accompanied to the funeral pyre by several of the officials in the bunker, including Goebbels and Bormann.  
 
 
On the afternoon of May 2, 1945, Russian troops reached the bunker and discovered the partially burned remains of Joseph and Magda Goebbels.  Hitler and Braun’s charred remains were found a couple of days later. The Russians photographed the remains and then reburied them twice in secret locations.
 
 
The only thing not burned was a skull and part of a jawbone, believed to be Hitler’s. However, recent research questions that theory, finding that the skull was from a woman.
 
 
The discovery of a forgotten tunnel renewed interest in the bunker in the late 1960s.  The East German State Security conducted a survey of the bunker and then resealed it.  It would remain this way until the mid-1980s when the government built high-end apartment buildings on the site of the former Chancellery.  A portion of the bunker’s remains were removed during excavation and the remaining chambers were filled with earthen material.
 
