The Will That Established the Nobel PrizesAlfred Nobel, Swedish chemist and the inventor of dynamite, established the Nobel Prizes in his will.  The following is a portion of Alfred Nobel's will, dated November 27, 1895 and signed by Alfred Bernhard Nobel. The Nobel Prize WinnersNobel Prize winners list chemistry physics physiology medicine peace literature economics Ebola Outbreaks in Sudan and ZaireOn July 27, 1976, the very first person to contract the Ebola virus began to show symptoms. Ten days later he was dead. Over the course of the next few months, the first Ebola outbreaks in history occurred in Sudan and Zaire. Find out how the Ebola outbreaks started and how many died. History of the Nobel PrizesA newspaper mistakenly ran an obituary for Alfred Nobel which called him the merchant of death. Not wanting to go down in history with such a horrible epitaph, Nobel created a will that shocked his relatives but established the Nobel Prizes. Fast Facts About the Nobel PrizesInteresting facts and trivia about the Nobel Prizes. Find out when the first Nobel Prizes were awarded, when a sixth category was added, and what happens if you nominate yourself. Alexander Fleming Discovers PenicillinIn 1928, bacteriologist Alexander Fleming made a chance discovery. From a contaminated experiment, he found a powerful antibiotic, penicillin. History of the American Red CrossA short history of the American Red Cross, the only congressionally mandated organization to provide aid to victims of disaster. Mengele's Medical Experiments on Twins at AuschwitzThe notorious doctor of Auschwitz, Josef Mengele, has become an enigma of the twentieth century. Mengele's handsome physical appearance, fastidious dress, and calm demeanor greatly contradicted his attraction to murder and gruesome experiments.  Mengele's favorite experiments were on twins. What did he do and why? Typhoid MaryTyphoid Mary had no idea that she was infected with the disease yet her work as a cook infected many. Find out all about Typhoid Mary and why authorities had a difficult time capturing Mary for her crimes. The World's First Test-Tube BabyOn July 25, 1978, Louise Joy Brown, the world's first successful test-tube baby was born. Though the technology that made her conception possible was heralded as a triumph, it also caused many to consider the possibilities of future ill-use.