1930 - 1939 TimelineA year-by-year look at the decade. Assassination Attempt on Franklin D. RooseveltOn February 15, 1933, Giuseppe Zangara shot five bullets at President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt at the Bayfront Park in Miami, Florida. Although all the bullets missed FDR, one did mortally wound Chicago Mayor Anton Cermak. Bonnie and ClydeFrom 1932 to 1934, Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow, mostly commonly known just as Bonnie and Clyde, were a young couple who went on a two-year crime rampage that included bank robberies, car theft, and murder. Their lives and their crime spree ended abruptly when police succeeded in ambushing them; Bonnie and Clyde died in their car from multiple... Dachau: The First Nazi Concentration CampThe very first Nazi concentration camp, Dachau, was opened just weeks after Adolf Hitler become chancellor of Germany in 1933. Find out why the Dachau Concentration Camp was built and what made it unique. Der StuermerCirculated from 1923 until 1945, Der Stuermer was a weekly, Nazi newspaper used to spread propaganda and incite hatred. The Great DepressionThe Great Depression struck the United States with surprising force. It began on October 29, 1929 with the Stock Market Crash and only ended after over a decade of hardship and suffering. Learn more about what caused the Great Depression, what life was like during it, and how it ended. Dust BowlThe greatest ecological disaster in U.S. history occurred in an area of the Great Plains during the Great Depression. Caused by both an eight-year drought and improper farming techniques, an estimated 100 million acres of farmland lost its topsoil. This loose topsoil created dust storms and black blizzards that made living in the area nearly... The Empire State BuildingWhen the Empire State Building opened on May 1, 1931, it was the tallest building in the world.  How did this gigantic icon get built?  It started with a race to the sky. The Hindenburg DisasterAt 7:25 p.m. on May 6, 1937, while the Hindenburg was attempting to land at the Lakehurst Naval Air Station in New Jersey, a flame appeared on the outer cover of the rear of the Hindenburg. Within 34 seconds, the entire airship was consumed by fire. Hitler Appointed Chancellor of GermanyOn January 30, 1933, Adolf Hitler, the leader of the Nazi Party, was appointed chancellor of Germany. This position enabled Hitler to become the dictator of Germany and to begin World War II. Hoover FlagsWhen the Great Depression hit America, many people blamed U.S. President Herbert Hoover for their problems. As part of their frustration, people used Hoover's name when coming up with negative nicknames, such as Hoover flags, for things that represented the Great Depression. Learn more about these nicknames. How FDR Tried to Change ThanksgivingThe history of Thanksgiving is eclectic. It began with a three-day feast in 1621, but evolved through the next two centuries. Discover the history of Thanksgiving and find out how FDR tried to change it. King Edward VIII Abdicated for LoveKing Edward was in love with Mrs. Wallis Simpson, not only an American, but also a married woman already once divorced. Yet, in order to marry the woman he loved, King Edward was willing to give up the British throne - and he did. The Nuremberg Laws of 1935On September 15, 1935, the Nazis announced two new laws that removed citizenship from Jews and forbade Jews and non-Jews from both marrying and having sexual relations. These laws became known as the Nuremberg Laws. Pluto DiscoveredOn February 18, 1930, Clyde W. Tombaugh, an assistant at the Lowell Observatory in Flagstaff, Arizona, discovered Pluto. For decades, Pluto was considered the ninth planet of our solar system. Prohibition Ends in the U.S.Prohibition officially ended with the ratificaton of the 21st Amendment to the U.S. Constitution on December 5, 1933. The Star Spangled Banner Becomes U.S. National AnthemOn March 3, 1931, U.S. President Herbert Hoover signed an act that officially made "The Star Spangled Banner" the national anthem for the United States. Before this time, the United States had been without any national anthem. Terror on KristallnachtOn November 9, 1938, the Nazis announced a government sanctioned pogrom against the Jews. Synagogues were ravaged and then burned. Jewish shop windows were broken. Jews were beaten, raped, arrested, and murdered. Throughout Germany and Austria, the pogrom rampaged. The Tragedy of the S.S. St. LouisA ship full of Jewish refugees fled Nazi Germany in 1939, but the world would not let them in. Learn more about the fate of the voyage of the damned. War of the Worlds Radio Broadcast Causes PanicOn Sunday, October 30, 1938, millions of radio listeners were shocked when radio news alerts announced the arrival of Martians. They panicked when they learned of the Martians' ferocious and seemingly unstoppable attack on Earth. World War II BeginsForty-six million soldiers and civilians died during the Second World War, learn how it started. Lindbergh's Baby KidnappedOn March 1, 1932, a parent's worst nightmare happened to one of the most famous men in the world -- someone kidnapped and killed the 20-month-old son of Charles Lindbergh. Find out more about the kidnapping and the arrest. 1936 Olympic GamesIn 1936, Nazi Germany hosted both the Winter and Summer Olympic Games. Despite Nazi Germany's obvious antisemitism, no country successfully boycotted the Games. Find out more about why the attempts to boycott failed and what happened at the 1936 Olympic Games. Evian ConferenceIn 1938, 32 countries sent representatives to Evian, France to discuss the problem of Jewish emigration from Nazi Germany. Despite high hopes, only one country offered any sort of option. The failure of the Evian Conference led the Nazis to the understanding that Jews were not wanted anywhere, prompting the Nazis to create the Final Solution.