
   

The “new” camp, completed in mid-1938, was composed of 32 barracks and was designed to hold 6,000 prisoners; however, the camp population was usually grossly over that number.  Electrified fences were installed and seven watchtowers were placed around the camp. At the entrance of Dachau was placed a gate topped with the infamous phrase, "Arbeit Macht Frei" ("Work Sets You Free”). 
  

Since this was a concentration camp and not a death camp, there were no gas chambers installed at Dachau until 1942, when one was built but not used.
 
 

In many instances, their imprisonment was a result of the emergency decree that Adolf Hitler proposed and President Paul Von Hindenberg approved on February 28.  The Decree for the Protection of the People and the State suspended the civil rights of German civilians and prohibited the press from publishing anti-government materials.  Violators were frequently imprisoned in Dachau in the months and years after it was put into effect. 
 

By the end of the first year, there had been 4,800 registered prisoners in Dachau.  In addition to the Social Democrats and Communists, the camp also held trade unionists and others who had objected to the Nazis rise to power.  Although long-term imprisonment and resulting death were common, many of the early prisoners (prior to 1938) were released after serving their sentences and were declared rehabilitated.
 
 

Dachau’s second commandant, Theodor Eicke, was quick to establish a set of regulations for daily operations in Dachau that would soon become the model for other concentration camps.   Prisoners in the camp were held to a daily routine and any perceived deviation resulted in harsh beatings and sometimes death.  Discussion of political views was strictly prohibited and violation of this policy resulted in execution.  Those who attempted to escape were also put to death.
 

Eicke’s work in creating these regulations, as well as his influence on the physical structure of the camp, led to a promotion in 1934 to SS-Gruppenführer and Chief Inspector of the Concentration Camp System.  He would go on to oversee the development of the vast concentration camp system in Germany and modeled other camps on his work at Dachau. 
 

Eicke was replaced as commandant by Alexander Reiner. Command of Dachau changed hands nine more times before the camp was liberated.
 
 

A variety of SS officers trained with Eicke, most notably future commandant of the Auschwitz camp system, Rudolf Höss. Dachau also served as a training ground for other camp staff.
 
 
With the SA officially eliminated as a threat, the SS began to grow exponentially.  Eicke benefited greatly from this occurrence, as the SS was now officially in charge of the entire concentration camp system.
 
 
Over time, the Nuremberg Race Laws were also applied to Roma & Sinti (gypsy groups) and led to their internment in concentration camps, including Dachau.
 
 
Over 30,000 Jewish men were arrested and approximately 10,000 of those men were then interned in Dachau.  This event, called Kristallnacht (Night of Broken Glass), marked the turning point of increased Jewish incarceration in Dachau.
 
 
By mid-1944, sub-camps began to spring up around Dachau in order to increase war production.  In total, over 30 sub-camps, which employed more than 30,000 prisoners, were created as satellites of the Dachau main camp.
 
 
These experiments were usually exceptionally painful and unneeded. For example, Nazi Dr. Sigmund Rascher subjected some prisoners to high altitude experiments using pressure chambers, while he forced others to undergo freezing experiments so that their reactions to hypothermia could be observed. Still other prisoners were forced to drink saltwater during efforts to determine its drinkability.  Many of these prisoners died from the experiments.
 
Nazi Dr. Claus Schilling hoped to create a vaccine for malaria and thus injected over a thousand prisoners with the disease. Other prisoners at Dachau were experimented on with tuberculosis.
 
 
Three days prior to liberation, 7,000 prisoners, mostly Jews, were forced to leave Dachau on a forced death march that resulted in the death of many of the prisoners.   
 
On April 29, 1945, Dachau was liberated by the United States 7th Army Infantry Unit. At the time of liberation, there were approximately 27,400 prisoners who remained alive in the main camp.  
 
In total, over 188,000 prisoners had passed through Dachau and its sub-camps.  It has been estimated that nearly 50,000 of those prisoners met their death in Dachau.
