Best Picture Oscar WinnersA list of all the Best Picture Oscar winners from every Academy Award ceremony. 10 Interesting Things You Should Know About Inauguration DayYou may know that inauguration day is January 20, but what day did it used to be? Which President gave the shortest inauguration address? Which President's death is blamed on his inauguration? Which Vice President made a spectacle of himself while drunk? Which President did not use a Bible during his swearing in ceremony? Find out the answers to these questions and more in this list of ten interesting things you should know about inauguration day. Academy Awards HistoryFrom the first Academy Awards ceremony in 1928 until the present, the Academy Awards are fun and full of the unexpected. Relive the exciting moments that made Oscar history through a year-by-year history of the Academy Awards. Bubble Gum InventedChewing gum has a history that spans as far back as the ancient Greeks; however, bubble gum, a type of chewing gum that allows the chewer to make bubbles, has a much more recent history. Find out who invented bubble gum and why it has that pink color. Cabbage Patch KidsIn 1983, thousands of people across the U.S. stood in lines, camped outside, or even physically fought to get their hands on a Cabbage Patch Kids doll. What is a Cabbage Patch Kids doll and how did they get so popular? Charleston Dance Becomes PopularThe Charleston dance became popular after appearing along with the song, "The Charleston," by James P. Johnson in the Broadway musical Runnin' Wild in 1923. The First Olympic GamesAfter 1500 years with no Olympics, the modern Olympic Games were established. Learn how and why the Games began again. The First Playboy MagazineWho was the first Playboy playmate? When was the first Playboy magazine published? Find out all about the very first edition of Playboy. Flappers in the Roaring TwentiesIn the 1920s, a new woman was born. She smoked, drank, danced, and voted. She cut her hair, wore make-up, and went to petting parties. She was giddy and took risks. She was a flapper. LEGO Toy Bricks First IntroducedFor over half a century, the small, plastic bricks known as LEGOs have sparked the imagination of children around the world. Discover the history of LEGO toys. Olympics HistoryA year-by-year overview of all the modern Olympic Games. Oreo Cookie HistorySince Oreo cookies debuted in 1912, over 362 billion have been sold, making them the best-selling cookie in the U.S. during the 20th century. Learn more about the history of the Oreo cookie. Pac-ManIn 1980, Pac-Man was released, changing video games forever. Find out who invented Pac-Man and what pizza had to do with it. Also discover what's on the final screen of Pac-Man - yes, someone actually finished all 255 levels! Rubik's CubeIt seemed simple enough. You would pick up the Rubik's Cube and turn it a few times. After a couple of hours, you realized you were mesmerized by the puzzle and yet no closer to solving it. This exact situation happened to millions of people in 1980 as the Rubik's Cube became an obsession around the world. Silly Putty HistoryThough invented in 1943 by James Wright, Silly Putty was not placed onto the market as a toy until Peter Hodgson packaged the goo in plastic eggs and sold them in 1950. Learn the history of the accidental invention and surprising marketing of one of the most popular toys of the 20th century. Cabbage Patch Kids DollsDid you participate in the 1983 frenzy over Cabbage Patch Kids dolls? Did you buy one for your kids or receive one as a present? What did you have to do to get one?