At the end of the war, Adolf Hitler decided to end his own life rather than face defeat. While living in his underground bunker in Berlin, he readied his own demise. It was on the same day that he married his long-time girlfriend, Eva Braun, that he prepared his last will.

 On April 29, 1945, Hitler dictated his last will to his secretary, Frau Traudl Junge. In his will, he stated specifically who was to be the executor of his will, what he wanted done with his body, and who was to receive his possessions. The following day at 3:30 in the afternoon, Eva and Adolf Hitler committed suicide.
 
The Will 
Here is the full text of Hitler's Last Will*:
 
As I did not consider that I could take responsibility, during the years of struggle, of contracting a marriage, I have now decided, before the closing of my earthly career, to take as my wife that girl who, after many years of faithful friendship, entered, of her own free will, the practically besieged town in order to share her destiny with me. At her own desire she goes as my wife with me into death. It will compensate us for what we both lost through my work in the service of my people. 
 
What I possess belongs - in so far as it has any value - to the Party. Should this no longer exist, to the State; should the State also be destroyed, no further decision of mine is necessary.
 
My pictures, in the collections which I have bought in the course of years, have never been collected for private purposes, but only for the extension of a gallery in my home town of Linz on Donau.
 
It is my most sincere wish that this bequest may be duly executed.
 
I nominate as my Executor my most faithful Party comrade,
 
 
He is given full legal authority to make all decisions. He is permitted to take out everything that has a sentimental value or is necessary for the maintenance of a modest simple life, for my brothers and sisters, also above all for the mother of my wife and my faithful co-workers who are well known to him, principally my old Secretaries Frau Winter etc. who have for many years aided me by their work.
 
I myself and my wife - in order to escape the disgrace of deposition or capitulation - choose death. It is our wish to be burnt immediately on the spot where I have carried out the greatest part of my daily work in the course of a twelve years' service to my people.
 
Given in Berlin, 29th April 1945, 4:00 a.m.
[Signed]A. Hitler
 
 
* Translated in the Office of United States Chief of Counsel for the Prosecution of Axis Criminality, Nazi Conspiracy and Aggression, Government Printing Office, Washington, 1946-1948, vol. VI, pg. 259-260.
