
The Sobibor Death Camp did exist and a revolt by the Sobibor prisoners did occur. Within this death camp, in operation for only eighteen months, at least 250,000 men, women, and children were murdered. Only 48 Sobibor prisoners survived the war.
 
Established
 
Sobibor was the second of three death camps to be established as part of Aktion Reinhard (the other two were Belzec and Treblinka). The location of this death camp was a small village called Sobibor, in the Lublin district of eastern Poland, chosen because of its general isolation as well as its proximity to a railway. Construction on the camp began in March 1942, overseen by SS Obersturmfuhrer Richard Thomalla. (Layout of the Sobibor Death Camp)
 
Since construction was behind schedule by early April 1942, Thomalla was replaced by SS Obersturmfuhrer Franz Stangl - a veteran of the Nazi euthanasia program. Stangl remained commandant of Sobibor from April until August 1942, when he was transferred to Treblinka (where he became commandant) and replaced by SS Obersturmfuhrer Franz Reichleitner. The staff of the Sobibor death camp consisted of approximately 20 SS men and 100 Ukrainian guards.
 
By mid-April 1942, the gas chambers were ready and a test using 250 Jews from the Krychow labor camp proved them operational.
 
Arriving at Sobibor
 
Day and night, victims arrived at Sobibor.  Though some came by lorry, cart, or even by foot, many arrived by train.  When trains filled with victims drew near the Sobibor train station, the trains were switched onto a spur and led into the camp.  
 
 

If Eastern European Jews were the occupants of the train, they descended from cattle cars amidst shouts, screams, and beatings, for the Nazis presumed that they knew what awaited them, thus were thought more likely to revolt.
 
 

There were many decisions to be made quickly.  But after days or even a week in the trains many were not physically or mentally prepared.  What was the best choice?  Should the boys act older or go with their mothers?
 

Toivi Blatt was holding his mother's hand when the order came to separate into two lines.  He decided to follow his father into the line of men, thus he turned to his mother, unsure what to say.

 

If the camp needed to replenish its workers, a guard would shout out among the lines for tailors, seamstresses, blacksmiths, and carpenters.  Was volunteering a good or bad decision?  Those that were chosen, often left brothers, fathers, mothers, sisters, and children behind in the lines.  Other than those that were trained at a skill, sometimes the SS chose men or women, young boys or girls, seemingly randomly for work within the camp.  
 

Out of the thousands that stood on the ramp, perhaps a select few would be chosen.  Those that were chosen would be marched off at a run to Lager I; the rest would enter through a gate that read, "Sonderkommando Sobibor" ("special unit Sobibor").
 
