
The Majdanek concentration camp, located approximately three miles (five kilometers) from the center of the Polish city of Lublin, was the second largest Nazi concentration camp. 

 
Majdanek's Name 
Although it is often called "Majdanek," the official name of the camp was Prisoner of War Camp of the Waffen-SS Lublin (Kriegsgefangenenlager der Waffen-SS Lublin), until February 16, 1943 when the name changed to Concentration Camp of the Waffen-SS Lublin (Konzentrationslager der Waffen-SS Lublin).
 
The name "Majdanek" is derived from the name of the nearby district of Majdan Tatarski and was first used as a moniker for the camp by residents of Lublin in 1941.*
 
Established
 
The decision to build a camp near Lublin came from Heinrich Himmler during his visit to Lublin in July 1941. By October, an official order for the establishment of the camp had already been given and the construction had begun. The Nazis brought in Polish Jews from the labor camp on Lipowa Street to start building the camp. While these prisoners worked on the construction of Majdanek, they were taken back to the Lipowa Street labor camp each night.
 
The Nazis soon brought in approximately 2,000 Soviet prisoners of war to build the camp. These prisoners both lived and worked at the construction site. With no barracks, these prisoners were forced to sleep and work in the cold outdoors with no water and no toilets. There was an extremely high mortality rate among these prisoners.
 
Layout 
The camp itself is located in a completely open, nearly flat field. Unlike most of the other camps, the Nazis did not try to hide this one from view. Instead, it bordered on the city of Lublin and could easily be seen from the nearby highway.
 
Originally, the camp was expected to hold between 25,000 and 50,000 prisoners. By the beginning of December 1941, a new plan was being considered to expand Majdanek in order to hold 150,000 prisoners (this plan was approved by the camp commandant Karl Koch on March 23, 1942). Later, designs for the camp were discussed again so that Majdanek could hold 250,000 prisoners.
 
Even with the increased expectations for a higher capacity of Majdanek, construction came to a near halt in the spring of 1942. Construction materials could not be sent to Majdanek because supplies and railways were being used for the urgent transports needed to help the Germans on the Eastern front. Thus, with the exception of a few small additions after the spring of 1942, the camp did not grow much after it reached the capacity of approximately 50,000 prisoners.
 
View a schematic of Majdanek to see what the layout of the camp looked like. 
 
Camp Commandments
 
 
Bibliography
 
Feig, Konnilyn. Hitler's Death Camps: The Sanity of Madness. New York: Holmes & Meier Publishers, 1981.
 
Mankowski, Zygmunt. "Majdanek." Encyclopedia of the Holocaust. Ed. Israel Gutman. 1990.
 
Marszalek, Jozef. Majdanek: The Concentration Camp in Lublin. Warsaw: Interpress, 1986. 
