Are bones safe for dogs?Are bones safe for dogs? Find out if its safe to give your dog a bone. What is a dog's normal body temperature?What is a dog's normal body temperature? Find out the normal body temperature of a dog. Should I Spay or Neuter my Dog?Should you spay or neuter your dog? Find out why it is important to consider pet sterilization. Should I induce vomiting after my dog ingests a toxin?Should you induce vomiting if your dog has ingested something potentially toxic? Find out what do do if you find yourself in this situation with your dog. Why Do Dogs Eat Grass?Why do dogs eat grass? Dogs love to munch away on grass, and some even make it part of their daily routine. Fortunately, most experts believe it isn't something you should worry about. So why exactly do they gobble up that green stuff in your yard? How do I submit a photo to the Dogs site?Learn how to submit your photos the the About.com Dogs site. Reader Question: How Can I Help My Itchy Dog?So your dog is itchy. What's a dog lover to do? Here's my answer about flea medications, bathing, shampoos and diet. General Dog FAQs from the American Animal Hospital AssociationFind the answers to many of your dog-related questions from the American Animal Hospital Association, a leading source of pet information. Poison Control FAQs from the ASPCAQuestions and Answers about pet poisoning from the ASPCA Animal Poison Control Center How long is a dog's pregnancy (gestation)?How long does pregnancy last in dogs? What is the canine gestation period? Learn the length of a dog's pregnancy, or gestation period. The American Kennel Club's Answer CenterFind the answers to common questions about AKC dog registration and read the Q & A advice column for dog owners. Can I let my dog roam free?Can I let my dog roam free? Find out about the dangers of free-roaming dogs, and why letting your dog roam free is a bad idea. Should I allow my dog on the bed, couch and other furniture?Should you let your dog sleep in the bed with you? What about snuggle-time on the couch? The answer to this question depends on who you ask. Some believe that allowing dogs on the furniture can make them think they are in charge of the whole family. Others see no problem with sharing furniture with the family dog and consider it bonding. What Should I Do If My Dog Bites Someone?What should I do if my dog bites someone? Learn how to handle dog bites to yourself and others. As dog owners, we must take responsibility for training our dogs and keeping them under control at all times. If a dog bite does occur, know what to do next. Why does dog urine cause brown spots on grass?My dog's urine is killing my lawn. Why does dog pee make the grass turn brown or yellow? How can I stop this? I love my dog but I would like a nice lawn, too. Why do dogs shed? How can I reduce dog shedding?Why do dogs shed? How can you stop dogs from shedding so much? Find out what makes dogs shed and learn how you can reduce dog shedding in your home. Why Does My Dog Eat Poop?Technically called coprophagia, the act of eating feces is relatively common in dogs. Find out why some dogs eat poop and how you can prevent dogs from eating feces. What is a Pit Bull?What is a pit bull? Is the pit bull a specific breed? Are they really dangerous dogs? Why is the pit bull so controversial? Can I Tell If a Dog is Sick By Feeling Its Nose?Does it matter if my dog has a dry or warm nose? Some people say that a cold, wet nose is good, and a warm or dry nose means the dog is sick. Is this true?