Ticks are are parasitic arthropods that feed on the blood of their hosts. They can carry a variety of diseases that can affect dogs and humans alike. The best way to keep you and your dog safe is to prevent ticks from attaching in the first place. It is also important to look for ticks on your dog and safely remove them. This is essential if you live in a region known for tick. Wooded area are favorite spots for ticks. To search for ticks on your dog, run your hands all over the body, paying close attention to the ears neck, skin folds and other crevices. You may prefer to wear latex gloves. Closely examine any raised areas closely by parting the hair, making sure you are in a very well-lit area (you can even use a flashlight). Depending on species and life stage, a tick may be as small as a pencil point or as large as a lima bean (when engorged). If you live in an area where ticks are prevalent, or your dog spends a lot of time in high grasses or wooded areas, you should check for ticks once or twice a day. If you find an embedded tick, be sure to remove it promptly. Here’s how:
 The best way to protect your dog from the hazards of ticks is to keep them from attaching to your dog in the first place. As stated earlier, routine checks should be done to search for ticks on your dog. Finding them before they attach is helpful, but this is not the most accurate method of prevention. To reduce the number of ticks hiding out in your yard, keep grass mowed and plants neatly trimmed. You may also choose to treat outdoor areas with pesticides, but be sure to use a substance that is safe for dogs and preferably environmentally-friendly. One of the most effective ways to keep ticks off your dog is to directly apply a tick prevention product specifically designed for dogs. Topical products like Frontline and Advantix are designed to be applied monthly to prevent ticks.  Another option is a tick collar, such as the Preventic collar. Some products are available over-the-counter while others require a prescription. Though approved for use on dogs, be aware that these products contain toxic components and should ALWAYS be used according to the directions. Do not use extra amounts of a product or apply more than one at the same time. Take note that most of these products are highly toxic to cats. Talk to your veterinarian about the best options for your dog’s lifestyle. Also be aware that not all products will work for every dog, so a bit of trial and error may be in order.