Dog aggression can be a serious problem for dog owners. In order to prevent or change aggressive behavior in dogs, it's important to know exactly what is causing the aggression. The following will help you determine if you're dealing with possession aggression: Possession aggression in dogs is also sometimes referred to as food aggression or resource guarding. In cases of possession aggression, dogs growl, snap, or bite in order to protect a resource (food, toys, etc.) from being taken away by another dog or person. It's your dog's way of saying, "Back off! This is mine!" Keep in mind that what your dog considers an object worthy of possessing may not be something you think has any value. For instance, some dogs are just as likely to snarl and snap over a tissue they fished out of the trash can as a big meaty bone. Often, possession aggression in dogs is genetic. Some dogs are just born with a genetic inclination to protect their food, toys, or other objects. Even puppies as young as a few weeks old have been observed growling over a food bowl. Some dogs may learn to be aggressive in situations where they feel there is competition over resources. For instance, a single dog in a household may never show signs of possession aggression, but if you add another dog, there may be squabbles over toys or food bowls. It's not uncommon for dogs who spend a long time in an animal shelter to develop a problem with possession aggression because they perceive the other dogs as competition for a limited number of resources. Different dogs can display different degrees of aggression. Some dogs may only show aggression over one specific object and nothing else. For instance, some dogs may not care if people or other animals approach him while he's eating or playing with a toy, but snap or growl if someone approaches him while he's chewing on a pig's ear. Other dogs, however, may display aggression over anything he finds around the house - food, bones, toys, children's toys, tissues, etc. There is also a difference in the way in which dog's display aggression. Some dogs never do more than curl a lip or give a small growl, while other dogs may give serious bites to someone who approaches while they eat. It's also possible for aggression to escalate over time. A dog may start off with a small growl over his food bowl, but if his warnings are ignored, he may resort to biting to protect the things he thinks of as his.