Dog Fight Information and PreventionDog fights are a source of fear and frustration for owners. Learn how to discern dog playing from fighting. Find out when to intervene in a dog fight. Most important of all, learn how to prevent dog fighting in the first place. How to Prevent Your Dog from Counter SurfingCounter surfing is when your dog jumps up on a counter or table to steal food or other items. Counter surfing can be a hard habit to break. Use these training tips to prevent your dog from jumping up on the counter. How to Prevent Destructive Puppy BehaviorLearn how to prevent your puppy's destructive chewing. Puppies chew on everything, and they can ruin your belongings, not to mention harm themselves. Find out how to stop destructive chewing in your puppy. Top Ten Dog Behavior ProblemsLearn all about the most common dog behavior problems. Thoroughly understanding the most common dog behavior problems is the first step to solving and preventing them. A solid foundation of obedience training will help you prevent or better control common dog behavior problems. Dog Behavior Problems - What Behavior Issues Have You ExperiencedThoroughly understanding the most common dog behavior problems is the first step to solving and preventing them. Share your experience with dog behavior problems and how you overcame them. Also see what others have done. Aggression in DogsDog aggression is a difficult problem to overcome. Learn how to control your dog's aggressive behavior. Barking Dogs - Control Excessive BarkingDogs will be dogs, and most dogs will bark or otherwise vocalize. Find out why dogs bark and how to gain control over your dogs barking - including how to stop excessive barking. Treating Separation Anxiety in DogsSeparation anxiety is a disorder that causes a number of behavior problems in dogs. Learn how to overcome your dog's separation anxiety. Dogs and Thunderstorm PhobiaThunderstorm phobia is a serious problem for many dogs. Dogs with thunderstorm phobia become extremely frantic and overwhelmed with fear during storms. Owners who see their dogs experiencing this fear usually feel helpless and frustrated. Find out what causes thunderstorm phobia in dogs and learn how to manage it. Dogs and Thunderstorm Phobia - Share Your Thunderstorm StoriesThunderstorm phobia is a serious problem for many dogs. Dogs with thunderstorm phobia become extremely frantic and overwhelmed with fear during storms. Owners who see their dogs experiencing this fear usually feel helpless and frustrated. Has it happened to you? Share stories about your dog's fear of storms and find out about other owners'... Fixing Submissive/Excitement Urination in DogsDoes your dog have a submissive/excitement urination problem? If your new housebroken puppy or rescued dog occasionally pees on the floor for no fathomable reason, then you might have a dog with submissive/excitement urination issues. Dogs and Fireworks PhobiaA fear of fireworks is very common in dogs. The good news is that there are ways to deal with a dog's fireworks phobia which can ease his stress and anxiety. Learn the best ways to manage your dog's fear of fireworks. Causes of Fear in DogsIt's important to try to find out the reason a dog develops a fear or phobia. Knowing the underlying cause of a dog's fear is the first step in overcoming the problem. Learn how to determine why your dog has certain fears or phobias. Dogs and Fear of MenDogs who aren't exposed to many men early in life are prone to develop a fear of men. In mild cases, it is possible to completely rid your dog of his fear of men with some patience and a few tricks. Dogs with a severe fear of men may need more intense training and management to keep their fear in check. Dogs and Fear of ObjectsDogs can sometimes develop a fear of specific objects, such as the vacuum cleaner or a holiday decoration. Find out how to overcome your dog's fear of these objects. Dogs and Fear of StrangersDogs may develop a fear of strangers due to a lack of early socialization or genetic factors that cause them to be skittish. It can be difficult to completely eliminate a dog's fear of strangers, but there are a number of things you can do to ease a dog's fear and anxiety. Dogs and Fear of the VeterinarianBetween the strange smells, being restrained, and poked and prodded, it's no wonder many dogs develop a fear of the veterinarian. Find out how to manage or overcome a dog's fear of going to the vet. Handling a Dog's Fear of Riding in CarsIf your dog hides under the bed instead of running for the door at the first mention of a ride in the car, chances are he has a phobia. A fear of riding in the car is very common in dogs. Learn why your dog is afraid of the car, and what you can do to get him comfortable with going for a ride. Fear of Children in DogsSince most dogs will encounter a child at some point in their lives, dealing with a dog who is afraid of children can be difficult. Find out why your dog has a fear of children, and learn how you can cope with your dog's fear. Signs and Symptoms of Fear in DogsThe more quickly you recognize the signs and symptoms of fear in a dog, the more quickly you can address the problem. Learn the body language, behavior, and physical symptoms a fearful dog exhibits. Top Ten Common Dog Fears and PhobiasDogs can suffer from a number of different fears and phobias. These phobias can have a variety of causes , including lack of early socialization , genetics, or a negative experience. A dog's fears and phobias may lead to signs such as cowering, trembling, drooling, barking, destructive behavior, and, in some cases, aggression. The following are some common dog fears and phobias: Dogs and Fear of StairsIt's not unusual for dogs to be afraid of navigating stairs. Whether the dog's fear of stairs developed because of a lack of exposure to steps or a traumatic experience like falling down the stairs, you can learn how to train the dog to go up and down the stairs fairly easily. Top Five Causes of Aggression in DogsThe first step in managing dog aggression is figuring out what causes the aggression. Find out the top reasons dogs become aggressive. Training to Prevent Dog BitesMillions of people suffer from dog bites every year. Learn about dog bite prevention to keep you and your dog safe. Dog Aggression and Resource Guarding - Possession Aggression in DogsPossession aggression in dogs occurs when a dog growls, snaps, or bites to protect something he considers his - food, a toy, bones. Learn more about the signs and causes of this type of dog aggression. Why Does My Dog Eat Poop?Technically called coprophagia, the act of eating feces is relatively common in dogs. Find out why some dogs eat poop and how you can prevent dogs from eating feces. How to Stop Jumping Up in DogsIt can be frustrating and sometimes even dangerous to have a dog jump all over you, even if it's just to offer kisses. Find out how the best way to train a dog to stop jumping up. How to Stop Dogs from DiggingIs your dog digging up your yard? This is a frustrating behavior problem seen in many dogs. Learn what you can do to keep your dog from digging. How to Safely Break Up a Dog FightFights between dogs are among the most common behavior complaints of dog owners. Dog fights are dangerous for both the dogs and their owners. Learn how and when to safely intervene in a dog fight. How to Stop Destructive Chewing in Dogs and PuppiesChewing is a natural behavior for dogs, but it can also cause lots of damage. Learn how to prevent destructive chewing in dogs and puppies.