Does your dog's flatulence have you gasping for air? Can one fart from your dog clear a room? Gassy dogs might be funny to some, but it's something we dog lovers can live without. Find out why some dogs fart so much and learn how to handle flatulence in your dog. Dogs pass gas for basically the same reasons people do. Flatulence is a normal bodily function that cannot be completely stopped. However, excessive gas can certainly be lessened, and finding out the reason is the first step. Flatulence is the result of gasses that accumulate in the digestive tract. These gasses typically get there in one of the following ways: If a dog has excessive flatulence with a foul odor, the culprit is likely dietary. It may, however, be the result of an infection or illness. First things first: is your dog showing any signs of illness? If so, he should see your vet before you attempt to address the flatulence. Signs like diarrhea, vomiting and loss of appetite along with flatulence could mean there is an GI tract problem. Even if your dog is showing other signs of illness seemingly unrelated to the flatulence, you should still see your vet before trying to change his diet and/or add medications. If your dog seems fine other than the gas, the next step is to make sure your dog is in overall good health. All dogs should have a thorough examination by a veterinarian every 6-12 months. If your dog has seen the vet in the last 6-12 months and received a clean bill of health, great. If not, it is best to make that routine appointment before trying to address your dog's gas yourself. You can bring up your dog's excessive gas to the vet and see what is recommended. If your dog appears to be in overall good health, here are a few things you can change in an effort to ease his flatulence: When making the above changes, it is best to try one option at a time in order to determine which works best. If none work alone, you can try combining methods one at a time. Remember, if at any point your dog develops diarrhea, vomiting, loss of appetite or any other signs of illness, you should see your vet. While waiting to see if any of these methods help, one simple way you can manage your dog's gas problem is through exercise. A simple walk within 30 minutes of eating can help move those gasses along more quickly, allowing him to emit them outdoors where the odor is much less noticeable.