A seizure is defined as a sudden episode of abnormal brain activity that often involves some loss of body control. Seizures can look like full body convulsions or small, localized spasms. There are various types of seizures, as well as several causes for seizures. One thing is certain: if you see your dog having a seizure for the first time, it will be frightening and overwhelming. Take some time now to learn how to react if your dog is having a seizure. If you think your dog is having a seizure, try not panic. Witnessing a seizure can be emotionally traumatic and extremely stressful. It is important to know that your dog is not suffering during the seizure. In fact, he does not even realize it is happening. The best thing you can do is to remain calm and try to keep your dog out of danger. The period before a seizure is called the "pre-ictal phase." Some dogs will begin to act strangely before a seizure begins. They may become anxious or restless. Some will stagger, appear disoriented, or exhibit other abnormal behaviors. The pre-ictal phase usuall lasts a few minutes. Other dogs will seem normal until a seizure begins. If your dog has had seizures before and you think a seizure is coming on, try to move him to a safe, soft area where there are no sharp objects or hard floors. If time allows, you may want leash your dog and bring him outside on the soft grass (check first for rocks).

 The words "ictal" and "ictus" pertains to the seizure itself. During a convulsive seizure, a dog will usually fall over, become stiff and shake his whole body violently. Most dogs will salivate ("foam at the mouth") and some will urinate and/or defecate involuntarily. Some dogs will vocalize as well (whining, growling, etc.). To protect your dog during a seizure: Move any objects that could fall on your dog or get in the way. Block off stairways and any areas that pose safety threats. You can try to place pillows or blankets around your dog if he appears to be hurting himself, but BE CAREFUL. You should NEVER put your hands or any objects in or near the mouth, as you may be seriously injured. Your dog may bite his tongue, but he will not swallow it. In general, you should steer clear of your dog until the seizure has passed, observing from a safe distance.  Most seizures only last about 10-60 seconds.

 The period after a seizure is called the "post-ictal phase." Most dogs will experience exhaustion and confusion. Some will appear sedated. Many dog experience temporary blindness after a seizure. In fact, all of their senses may be dulled. The post-ictal phase can last minutes to hours. During this time, supervise and comfort your dog. Another seizure may or may not occur. Fortunately, most seizures are not considered life-threatening. However, they do indicate that there is a problem in the brain. If you suspect that your dog has had a seizure, contact your vet as soon as possible. Depending on the nature of the seizure, you may be instructed to bring your dog in right away. Be aware that a seizure lasting more than five minutes is considered an emergency situation. It is imperative that your dog is seen by a vet immediately to prevent brain damage and hyperthermia. In addition, the occurrence of more than three seizures in a 24 hour period is also an urgent matter that requires a trip to the vet right away. Finally, if you suspect your dog has been exposed to a toxin, be sure to let your vet know. Some toxins cause seizures in dogs. If your dog has recurring seizures, keep a log of any seizure-like activity. Describe the nature and length of each phase. Observe how your dog acts in-between seizures. This information may be useful to your vet, who will run diagnostic tests to determine the cause of your dog's seizures.