Breed Specific Legislation DefinitionWhat is the meaning of Breed Specific Legislation? Get information about BSL and find out what it means for you and your dog. Stories of Canine Inspiration - Dogs and Humans Helping One AnotherDo you have an inspiring dog story? What have you or your dog done to make the world a better place? Tell your story and warm the hearts of pet lovers like you. Read heartwarming stories from other readers, too. See submissions Giving Back: Helping Dogs in NeedGot a soft spot for dogs and other animals? Give something back to help pets in need. You can help by volunteering your time or donating funds to help homeless, sick and unfortunate animals. Here's what you need to know to start giving back right now. Kyra Sedgwick on Pet Adoption and RescueKyra Sedgwick is not only the star of TNT's the Closer - she is also an animal lover and strong supporter of pet rescue and adoption. Read my interview with Kyra Sedgwick and here what she has to say about animal rescue, pet adoption and her own beloved pets. Responsible Dog OwnershipResponsible dog ownership means more than adoring your dog. Dog ownership is a serious commitment that consists of vital duties. Here are some of the most important rules of conscientious dog ownership. Reasons to NOT Give Up Your DogIf you or someone you know is thinking about giving up a dog, please read this first. Even if you've fallen on hard times, there are other options. It just takes a little effort -- you can do it! Animal Rights on About.comLearn all about supporting animal rights from Doris Lin, your Guide to Animal Rights on About.com. "How Could You?" - An Essay by Jim WillisThis moving essay by author and dog advocate Jim Willis teaches a valuable lesson from a dog's perspective. You might want to have a box of tissues handy before you read this. The Humane Society of The United StatesLearn more about the nation's largest and most effective animal protection organization.  The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to AnimalsThe ASPCA was formed to alleviate the injustices animals face. The ASPCA helps save pets who has been accidentally poisoned, fights to pass humane laws, rescues animals from abuse and shares resources with shelters across the country. Breed Specific LegislationAnimal Law provides information about breed specific legislation (BSL) in the United States and why it is not an effective approach to regulating dog beahvior. What is a Puppy Mill?What exactly is a puppy mill? Find out about puppy mills and what they represent. Learn how to avoid promoting puppy mills and to help stop their operations. Why Are Certain Dog Breeds Labeled Dangerous?Are some dog breeds universally dangerous? Find out why certain dogs are considered aggressive and whether or not there are facts to support the assumptions.