If you have ever witnessed a fight between two dogs, you know how frightening it can be. Dogs can do serious harm to one another during a fight or attack. In some cases, dog fight injuries can even lead to death. This instinct to jump in and stop dog fight can be hard to resist. However, trying to break up a dog fight the wrong way could land you in the hospital. What's a concerned dog owner to do? First things first: NEVER physically get in the middle of two dogs fighting. If you put your hand (or other body part) anywhere near the heads of these dogs you WILL be injured. This includes trying to grab their collars. Don't be foolish enough think a dog will not bite its beloved owner. In the heat of a dog fight, your dog does not see who is intervening. He will bite any and everything in his way. DO NOT underestimate your dog. It's not personal. Remember, if your dog is injured, he will need you to take care of him. You can't do this from a hospital bed. There are a few ways to try and break up a dog fight. No matter what method you use, be sure to remain as calm as possible. Avoid yelling at the dogs and other people (unless you are calling out for help). Take a deep breath and focus on the task at hand. Advise others on the scene to do the same. Remove children from the area and keep crowds of people away. It is best for there to be two people (ideally the dogs' owners) involved in breaking up the fight. All other people should step FAR away. Here are several ways to break up a dog fight (some better than others):

 Remember to be safe when trying to break up a dog fight. As soon as the dogs are apart, the should be put in separate rooms or, ideally, their respective crates. No matter how minor the injuries seem, it is important to contact your vet immediately. Your dog should be examined, as the damage from dog bites is not always noticeable to the untrained eye. Most importantly, take the time now to learn more about dog fights. It is best to learn how to tell a dog fight is coming and how to prevent one from happening in the first place.