Before You Choose a Dog FoodLearn some of the basics about dog food before you decide which diet best suits your dog. Choosing a Dog Food - What Do You Feed Your Dog and WhyChoosing a dog food can be overwhelming - should you buy premium or opt for natural/holistic food? Does brand really matter? Should you go raw? What about rotating diets? What formula is best? All of these questions can lead you to just give up and choose randomly - but you shouldn't. About Natural and Holistic Dog FoodsNatural and holistic dog food companies pledge to use high quality ingredients without fillers and by-products. They go the extra mile to add beneficial nutrients without non-essential additives. About Premium Dog FoodsPremium dog food companies often use higher quality ingredients than economy or generic dog foods and contain fewer chemical preservatives. Learn about just a few of today's choices in premium dog food companies. Dog Treat VarietiesWe love to give our dogs treats, whether for reward training, general good behavior, or for no reason at all. Choosing the appropriate treat varieties can help keep our dogs healthy and happy. Treats can enhance a healthy diet and should never make up more than 10% of a dog's daily food intake. Toxic Foods and Your DogThere are many types of people foods that can poison your dog. Some foods cause minor effects, while others can cause death. Learn what foods to avoid and keep your dog safe. Albert Finest Dog Treats and Cookie DoughAlbert's Finest is a small organic dog treat company that offer healthy, hand made dog treats and cookie dough for dogs using organic, wholesome ingredients. Dog Food Reviews - Best and Worst Dog Food BrandsRead reviews of the best and worst commercial dog food on the market today. Find out what dog owners have to say about various brands of dog foods. Write your own review of dog food brands you have given to your dog. Share the reasons why you did or did not approve of certain diets. See submissions  See submissions See submissions Are bones safe for dogs?Are bones safe for dogs? Find out if its safe to give your dog a bone. Choosing the Best Dog ChewsChoosing the right dog chew is just as important as picking out a healthy diet for your dog. How can you know what chews are healthiest and most enjoyable for your dog? Use this list to guide you.