Dog growling is one way dogs communicate with us. They growl to let us know they are afraid, or in pain, or need us to back away from their possessions or territory. Often our first instinct is to run from a growling dog or to punish him for growling. Because growling can be the first sign of more serious aggression, it's important to handle a growling dog appropriately. Many dog owners get understandably upset when a dog growls. Their first reaction is often to suppress the growling by scolding or punishing the dog. This is never a good idea. By teaching your dog that growling is not an acceptable behavior, you are taking away his ability to warn you that he may bite. Often we hear stories of dogs who bite with no warning. In many cases, this is because the owners trained the dog not to give a warning growl first. Dogs are trying to tell us something when they growl. Growling is a sign of an underlying problem. The most common causes of dog growling are fear, pain, territoriality, and aggression over possessions. Rather than teaching our dogs not to growl, it's vital that we determine the reason why the dog is growling and address those issues. Once the underlying problem has been dealt with, dogs won't feel the need to growl. The following can help you determine the cause of dog growling: The key to getting a dog to stop growling is not to suppress the growls, but rather to deal with the underlying problem which causes the dog to growl. Once the pain, possession aggression, fear, or territoriality has been dealt with, the dog will no longer need to growl. The way to solve the problem of a dog who growls because of pain or illness is simple. If you suspect that your dog is ill or injured, you should immediately call your veterinarian. Proper medical treatment should alleviate his pain, and therefore the dog will no longer feel the need to growl. Territoriality, possession aggression, and fear are serious behavior problems. Depending on the degree of the behavioral problem, the dog may respond well to a training program or may need a much more in-depth behavior modification program. A dog trainer or animal behaviorist can help you evaluate the dog, and determine the best course of action for dealing with these issues.