This recipe comes from " 300 Best Stir-fry Recipes " by Nancie McDermott (p. 91). In the recipe introduction she writes: "Five-spice powder is an extraordinary melange of aromatic spices that brings marvelous flavor to meat dishes all across Asia. Made from star anise, Szechwan peppercorns, fennel seeds, cinnamon and cloves, it is often available among the spices on supermarket shelves or in Asian markets. Enjoy this richly flavored stir-fry with a salad of spinach, dried cranberries and thinly sliced almonds, tossed with a citrus dressing."

1.  In a bowl, combine soy sauce, sherry, five-spice powder and cornstarch and stir well into a smooth sauce. Add pork and stir to coat evenly. Set aside for 10 minutes.

2.  In a small bowl, combine chicken stock, sugar and salt and stir well. Set aside.

3.  Heat a wok or a large deep skillet over high heat. Add oil and swirl to coat the pan. Add garlic and toss well, until fragrant, about 15 seconds.

4.  Add pork mixture and spread into a single layer. Cook, undisturbed, until edges change color, about 30 seconds. Toss well. Cook, tossing occasionally, until no longer pink, about 1 minute more.

5. Add bok choy and toss well. Add chicken stock mixture and cook, tossing occasionally, until pork is cooked through, 1 to 2 minutes more. Add green onions and toss well. Transfer to a serving plate. Serve hot or warm.

For 1 cup (250 mL) chopped bok choy, you'll need about 3 leafy stalks. Trim 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the base of each stalk and then halve it lengthwise. Chop resulting strips crosswise into 1-inch (2.5 cm) lengths. You'll have bite-size pieces, roughly 11/2 inches-by 1-inch (4 cm by 2.5 cm). If bok choy leaves are very large, cut them lengthwise into 3 or 4 pieces, rather than in half.

Courtesy 300 Best Stir-Fry Recipes by Nancie McDermott (c) 2014 www.robertrose.ca Reprinted with publisher permission.

Purchase this book through Amazon

Read my Review

You may also be interested in:

Top 10 Chinese Pork Stir-fry Recipes

More Chinese Pork Recipes

