According to popular belief, Indian food and chillies go hand in hand. While this is not necessarily true all the time, there are some dishes that will definitely make you feel the heat! Get adventurous and try a few of them in your kitchen...

We've all had days when we've over-indulged with food and ended up feeling really guilty. We tell ourselves how we just HAVE to start eating healthy. Even before we've begun, we feel sorry for ourselves as we imagine our 'lean meals' as being typically dull, tasteless, steamed or boiled stuff. Anyone feeling this with me or am I alone? Come on, you know you are amongst friends and can be honest here! Every now and then, I will get carried away by the sheer delicious-ness (is that even a word?) of the food I am eating! Every day is a new day though and fortunately with Indian food there are so many delicious and healthy choices available! One such example is Momos (steamed wontons, pictured above). They're actually appetizers but serve them with some fiery Sikkim Tomato Achaar and a piping hot bowl of Thukpa (clear noodle soup) and they become a wholesome, very fulfilling meal. Whip some up and you'll be feeling very diet-righteous indeed!

Indian food grows in popularity everyday but it is also highly misunderstood. I am constantly reminded of this as I speak to my non-Indian friends and acquaintances. Common misconceptions about Indian food have it typecast as hot, spicy, oily, diet-busting and generally unhealthy! This couldn't be further from the truth! There is such an amazing and diverse range of healthy, wholesome and tasty foods to choose from, as my husband often says, "... if you cooked a different Indian dish every day of the year, you would still take a number of years to get to the stage where you would need to repeat one!" Now that's choice for you! Don't let other people's opinions hold you back from trying out one of the world's greatest cuisines. Explore and discover the truth about Indian food for yourself. You will never regret it!

For me, and forgive me if I am biased, nothing beats Indian snacks when it comes to feeding a craving in the middle of the day! Actually most of them are so filling, they could pass as  a meal at almost any time. They might seem involved to make, but they can often be made ahead of time. That way they are ready when you are hungry. Here are a few of my favourites...

I was on Facebook the other day and a dear friend had posted a picture of his breakfast and captioned it 'Breakfast of Kings'. One look at the picture and I couldn't have agreed more! Even though my family is North Indian, as children, weekend breakfasts were often South Indian style and consisted of Dosa, Idli, Sambar and South Indian Coconut Chutney.... We loved this and eagerly waited for these breakfasts! So popular are these foods in India that I even remember a man going door-to-door selling the Idli and Dosa batter, all made and ready to cook with right away! Idli and Dosa batter takes time and pre-planning to prepare so this is not uncommon. Breakfast like a champion this weekend... cook these yummy South Indian foods...