Tangy, hot, sweet and everything in between, Chutneys are a nice finishing touch to an Indian meal. Here are some recipes for yummy Chutneys...

Mom's Tomato Chutney - Indian Tomato Relish

I love this simple, easy-to-prepare Chutney. My Mom usually serves it with Pulaos and Biryanis. It also tastes really good with Stuffed Parathas.

Chunda - Chundo - Hot Sour Sweet Mango Pickle from Gujarat

This delicious pickle takes time and effort to make but the results are well worth it! Traditionally, the pickle is kept out in the sun for 20-30 days to 'cook'. Each day it is given a good stir, covered and placed in a sunny spot, then brought indoors at dusk. The sun makes the sugar in it melt to a syrupy consistency! Since most of us don't have the time and sometimes the sun (!) required to do this, here is a quick and less time consuming version of the recipe.

Nagi's Garlic Gunpowder

This Andhra (from Andhra Pradesh in South India) version of the famous Gunpowder Chutney was created by a family friend, Nagi. Enjoy!

South Indian Gunpowder Chutney

Serve South Indian Gunpowder Chutney with Idlis (steamed South Indian rice cakes) or Dosas (crispy savory South Indian rice pancakes) and Sambar or simply sprinkle it on plain boiled rice and tuck in!

Pyaaz Ki Chutney

This delicious chutney can be used as a dip or spread and tastes great with just about anything!

Spicy Peanut Chutney

This fiery chutney is great with Idlis (steamed South Indian rice cakes) and Dosas (crispy savory South Indian rice pancakes). You can have it dry or add some tamarind juice to make a delicious tangy-hot dip too!

Curd Chilly

It sounds fiery but isn't as fierce as the name suggests! Curd Chilly is a pickle of sorts from south India. You can eat it exactly as is or fry it in a little oil. Curd Chilly goes well with Curd Rice and plain boiled rice and Sambar (south Indian style lentils).

Coconut Chutney (South Indian)

This mild chutney is the perfect companion for idlis (south indian steamed rice cakes), dosas and uttapams(south Indian rice pancakes).

Shengdaana Lehsun Chutney (peanut garlic chutney)

From the state of Maharashtra, this dry chutney is often eaten over plain boiled rice with ghee drizzled over it. Some of its primary ingredients are coconut and peanuts which are found in abundance in this state.

Hell's Flame

This really hot chutney lives up to it's name! Anglo-Indian in origin, it was and still is, eaten with pulaos (pilafs) and meat curries and a salad. To still be able to enjoy it, you can reduce the amount of red chillies.

Tamarind Chutney - Imli Ki Chutney

This tangy chutney can be used as a dip or stir-in sauce for numerous Indian snacks.

Mint-Coriander Chutney

This basic chutney is perfect for using as a dipping sauce with cutlets and samosas or to serve with main course dishes like biryani.