Getting started - everything you need to know

Just build on these basics once you've got them sorted.

Pressure Cooker Recipes

The raised pressure and temperature inside a closed pressure cooker makes the food in it cook faster (usually 1/3 the time) and more evenly than in an open pot. You save time and conserve the precious nutrients in the food which could otherwise be lost by overcooking. Lots of Indian foods are cooked in a pressure cooker, so you'll never regret...

Til - Sesame

A description of what Til looks like, how it is used in Indian cooking and some interesting facts about it.

Indian Curry Recipes

Though the word 'curry' does not begin to describe the depth and breadth of what is available in Indian cuisine, the association is a popular one nonetheless. Here are some of my curry recipes for you to try...

Christmas menu Ideas

Times like Christmas are made even more special by the foods we love. These are usually things our mothers or grandmothers made when we were growing up. Most of us continue to cook and serve these dishes at our own tables on festive occasions, adding a couple of our own. None of these have to be "fancy" or especially difficult to prepare so they can qualify. It's the memories of the happy times s...

Daalchini - Cinnamon

All about Daalchini and its uses in Indian cuisine....

Kid-friendly Indian Recipes

Cooking for kids is tricky at best! They reject foods for all sorts of reasons: spice, texture, ingredients.... Here is a list of recipes for foods that I have found my kids, just like a lot of others I have come across, love. Some are favorites because they are mild or neutral tasting, others for their well-loved flavors and still others because they are just too tasty to resist.

Saunf - Fennel Seeds

All about fennel seeds and how they are used in Indian cooking.

Dine Like an Indian! - The Ultimate Guide to Dining Indian Style

So you've been invited to a meal at an Indian home. You're thinking, "Oh my! I don't know a thing about Indian food traditions!"Don't worry. You've come to the right place. I'll answer all those questions... and some. By the time we are done, you'll be dining like an Indian!

Laung - Lavang - Cloves

A description of what Ajwain or Carom Seeds look like, how they are used in Indian cooking and some interesting facts about them.

Mustard Seeds - Rai - Sarson - Raai

All about mustard seeds and how they are used in Indian cooking.

Carom Seeds - Ajwain

A description of what Ajwain or Carom Seeds look like, how they are used in Indian cooking and some interesting facts about them.

Misconceptions About Indian Food

Some of the most popular myths about Indian food...exposed!

A Photo Gallery of Indian Daals and Beans

Lentils and beans are a huge part of the Indian diet. Most meals include them and recipes for how to cook Daals abound. Learn to recognise them with my handy photo gallery of Indian daals.

How to Find a Good Indian Restaurant

From pricing to differentiating a bad curry from a great one, here's advice on how to pick a winner the next time you feel the urge to dine out on Indian cuisine.

How to Order in an Indian Restaurant

Never get stuck at an Indian restaurant wondering what to order, what goes with what else and how hot a dish might be, again! Here's a handy guide to help you get the meal you want the next time you step out to eat Indian food.

Print and Carry Guide to Ordering Indian Food

Never get stuck at an Indian restaurant wondering what those exotic names mean, what goes with what else and how hot a dish might be, again! Here's a handy guide to help you get the meal you want the next time you step out to eat Indian food.

Popular Indian Dishes

They're among the most ordered dishes in any Indian restaurant. Want to cook them in your kitchen? Get the recipes here...

Getting Creative With Leftovers!

Don't throw those leftovers out. Dazzle your family with these clever dishes!

Recipes For Indian Food Beginners

Recipes of easy-to-cook foods for those just getting started with Indian cooking.

Cookware to get you started

A look at the essentials (and some of the luxuries) you need in terms of cookware, to cook Indian food.

The Cuisine of Western India

A look at western Indian cuisine.

Discovering Indian Cuisine

Diverse, delicious and not as difficult to cook as you might think, here's a look at Indian cuisine.

The Cuisine of East India

A look at East Indian Cuisine.

The Cuisine of North India

A look at North Indian cuisine.

Stocking Your Pantry

Want to cook Indian food? Here's a list of stuff to get you started.

Badi Elaichi - Kali Elaichi - Black Cardamom

A description of what Badi Elaichi or Black Cardamom looks like, how it is used in Indian cooking and some interesting facts about it.