They're the heart and soul of any Indian dish. Here's how you make them.

Black Coconut Masala

Black Coconut Masala is a typical coastal (western coast) Indian masala (spice mix). It uses key ingredients from the region and is perfect for making a fish or seafood curry. Here is the recipe...

Red Coconut Masala

This tasty masala (spice mix) uses key coastal ingredients and is perfect for making a fish or seafood curry. Here is the recipe...

Chaat Masala

Zingy, tangy, slightly hot Chaat masala is the perfect seasoning! Learn how to make it here...

Indo Chinese Szechuan Sauce

Indo Chinese or Chindian food is a product of the huge Chinese community that lives in India. The delicious flavors of their food have been taken and adapted to the Indian palate. This easy recipe teaches you how to make Szechuan Sauce with an Indian twist! The sauce can be made ahead and stored in your fridge for future use.

Bafad Masala - Bafat Masala - Mangalorean Spice Mix

A Bafad is a hot, tangy Mangalorean curry. Once you make up this basic powder for it, you can use it in several different dishes! Store in a clean, dry air-tight jar/ container in a cool, dry place. Ideally Bafad Masala should not be stored for more than a month as it loses its potency.

Basic Indian Gravy

Most gravied Indian dishes have certain ingredients in common, so preparing and storing one when you have some spare time is a great idea. Here's the recipe...

Paanch Phoran

This uniquely Bengali (east Indian) spice mix is used to season many dishes. It is a blend of five (paanch) spices and lends a lovely aroma when added to a dish.

Paav Bhaaji Masala

A well-loved food all over India, Paav Bhaaji is actually western Indian (Maharashtrian to be precise) in origin. A mix of veggies is used to make it, so it's healthy too! Paav Bhaji is so wholesome you can have it as a meal. Here's a recipe for the masala used to make this yummy dish.

Tandoori Masala

Make this popular masala ahead of time and store in an air-tight container. Creating a tasty meal will then be a simple matter of marinate and grill!

Sambar Masala

Almost a staple in South India, Sambar is eaten with plain boiled rice, Idlis, Vadas, Dosas...well almost everything. The main ingredient in Sambar is Sambar Masala. Here's how you can make some in your kitchen.

Hara Masala (green spice mix)

This masala is perfect as a base for fish and chicken curries. My favourite green masala dish? Fish marinated in green masala, then wrapped in banana leaves and steamed!

Vindaloo Masala Recipe

This spicy Goan (Goa is on the western Indian coast) masala paste is typically used as the base in a pork curry but tastes just as good with chicken.

Raechad Masala

This fiery hot masala paste has its home in Goa. It can be used as the main spice mix in a curry or to marinate meat or fish. You can make some ahead and store it in your refrigerator for later use.