Chinese rice vinegar and fresh ginger liven up the marinade for this ginger chicken that tastes fantastic whether grilled or broiled. This recipe is designed to make more marinade than needed - feel free to use the extra marinade (it does not come into contact with the chicken) as a dressing for a simple salad to serve with the chicken, or, simply save it to use another time. In either case, be sure to whisk the leftover marinade ingredients again before using.

 

 Ginger chicken tastes delicious when thinly sliced and served with peanut sauce for dipping.



 

 2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the olive oil and rice vinegar. Whisk in the light and dark soy sauce, sesame oil, fresh ginger, brown sugar, chili sauce, and and black pepper.

 

 3. Place the chicken breasts and 1/4 cup of the marinade in a large resealable plastic bag. Use the remainder of the marinade as a dressing for a salad to go with the chicken, or reserve to use another time. Marinate the chicken in the refrigerator for 2 hours, turning occasionally to make sure the breasts are coated.

 

 4. Remove the chicken breasts from the bag. Discard the marinade used to marinate the chicken.

 

 5. To grill: Preheat the grill. Lay the chicken breasts flat on the cooking surface. Grill the chicken for 15 minutes or until the chicken is cooked through and the juices run clear when pierced with a knife.

 

 To broil: Place the breasts on a rack sprayed with non-stick cooking spray. Broil the chicken on high heat, 9 inches from the cooking source, for about 15 minutes or until cooked through.

 

 More Grilled Chicken Recipes

 Five-spice Chicken

 Grilled Lemon Chicken

 Marinated Ginger Chicken

 

 Chinese Chicken Recipes

 Main Chinese Recipe File 1. Rinse the chicken breasts under cold running water and pat dry. With a knife, make a few shallow, crosswise cuts in each breast to allow the marinade to penetrate.2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the olive oil and rice vinegar. Whisk in the light and dark soy sauce, sesame oil, fresh ginger, brown sugar, chili sauce, and and black pepper.3. Place the chicken breasts and 1/4 cup of the marinade in a large resealable plastic bag. Use the remainder of the marinade as a dressing for a salad to go with the chicken, or reserve to use another time. Marinate the chicken in the refrigerator for 2 hours, turning occasionally to make sure the breasts are coated.4. Remove the chicken breasts from the bag. Discard the marinade used to marinate the chicken.5. To grill: Preheat the grill. Lay the chicken breasts flat on the cooking surface. Grill the chicken for 15 minutes or until the chicken is cooked through and the juices run clear when pierced with a knife.To broil: Place the breasts on a rack sprayed with non-stick cooking spray. Broil the chicken on high heat, 9 inches from the cooking source, for about 15 minutes or until cooked through.