Hummus is a beautiful chickpea dip that can be found in Greece as well as many other countries around the world. If you have an abundance of chickpeas, then you have the ability to whip up this smooth and wholesome spread.  While there has been some debate over where hummus originated, there has never been a contest over how delicious this dip is and can be when added to most any dish.

It's interesting that when you walk through most markets these days, you will find about 3-4 different brands of hummus. It's definitely grown in popularity over the years and it's time that people realize it isn't that intimidating to make yourself at home. Live a little and experience how fresh made hummus can change your life.

With this recipe, one of the first things you'll notice is how quick it comes together. A few short ingredients to add to the blender and in minutes you have something with so much flavor profile it's incredible that a professional chef wasn't shadowing you in the kitchen. The second thing that you will start to realize is that you can customize the flavors. While this recipe calls for lemon and garlic as the main additions to the beans, you can also add bell peppers, pine nuts, red pepper flakes, or any other ingredient that will transform this into any dip you want.

One of my favorite foods to pair with hummus is warm, crispy pita bread cut into bite sized triangles. With each dip into the bowl, you come out with a cool and creamy spread atop your lightly olive oil drizzled bread. Life stops for just a moment as this combination hits your taste buds. Another hit is when you serve this along with fresh cut veggies at your next party. This will never be short of a crowd pleasure. Speaking of a crowd that you want to make smile, you will love serving this hummus next to a Greek chicken or red meat dish at dinner time for your family. Use it as something to scoop up with your fork as you take your bite of protein. You won't need much of anything else to make your table full of hungry patrons smile from ear to ear.