One can argue that this may just be the single most simplest recipe on the face of this earth. It is one of our goto appetizers for that very reason. There are a few other Greek appetizers, or mezedhes that are as easy, but we'll save that for another post.

Growing up I feel like cheese and olives were always in the house and always on the table. Since I was little, this meze has been one of my favorites.

This recipe highlights feta cheese in all its glory. As a side note, in Greek feta means "slice" and not necessarily this cheese, even though it's become synonymous with this style of cheese.

Personally, I do not understand how people do not love feta. I can eat it in block form right out of the fridge. I know not everyone is crazy like me, but I feel this traditional dish is a good meeting place.

For feta lovers, you will no doubt be a fan of this, and for people who are not 100% on board, it's a good way to get on board! :)

Oregano has a special relationship with Greek food. It  was said to be developed by the goddess Aphrodite as a symbol of happiness. Also, in ancient times, bridal couples were crowned with garlands of oregano.

Oregano is a special herb, a bit different than other herbs (save for thyme) because professional cooks recommend using it dry vs fresh as there is a greater depth of flavor found when the herb is dried out. They say that the best and most flavorful oregano comes from the hills of Greece. It definitely is a bit stronger and if you are using it, use a little less than recommended. As they say, you can always add more, it is removing the herb that causes issues.

If you are seeking a milder oregano, than the one you have in your cupboard or at the store will probably be your best bet. We have both, and I can say Jane prefers a milder one while I prefer our special Greek one.

Either way, both of these are meshed perfectly well together and the distinctive aromatic flavor that oregano brings combines lovely with the saltness of the feta. The olive oil binds it all together and you are left with a simple and easy appetizer.

Serve this along with some olives and bread or baked pita chips, anything that makes it easy to cut into and eat.