Vegetarian Baigan Ka BhartaVegetarian Baigan Ka Bharta is a mashed and Indian spiced eggpant dish, to be eaten with rice or Indian breads. This vegetarian Indian recipe is also vegan. Baigan ka bharta, also sometimes spelled "baingan ka bjarta" is an Indian Punjabi favorite. Chana Masala (Spicy Chickpeas) with SpinachChana masala with spinach is a variation of a traditional and popular Indian dish.  Easy Indian Aloo Gobi RecipeEasy Indian Aloo Gobi Recipe Indian Cauliflower Curry Recipe A combination of Indian spices transforms this simple vegetable dish into a delight for the senses. This authentic Indian curry recipe is both vegetarian and vegan.  Indian Palak Paneer with RicottaIf you don't have a source for Indian paneer cheese in your city, you can still enjoy palak paneer - Indian spinach and cheese - made with ricotta instead, as in this vegetarian Indian dish. Vegan Indian Palak "Paneer" (Spinach and Tofu)Indian Palak "Paneer" (Spinach and Tofu) Green kale pakoras - Pan-fried Indian battered kaleUsually, Indian pakoras are made with cauliflower, onions or potatoes, deep-fried in an Indian-spiced batter, but these are made with kale for plenty of nutrients and fiber, and, they're pan-fried rather than deep-fried to reduce the fat. Vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free. Indian chole - spicy chickpeas in tomato sauceChole, a vegetarian Indian curry made from spiced chickpeas (garbanzo beans) is a traditional North Indian dish with plenty of variations Coconut curried lentilsInspired by more traditional Indian vegetarian curried lentils or dahl, this simple homemade lentil dish adds coconut milk for a deeply flavorful meal. Serve your curried lentils with rice or another whole grain. Vegan tofu paneer recipeA simple way of making a vegan paneer substitute from tofu. Paneer is a soft curd cheese frequently used in vegetarian Indian food recipes. Here's how to make a yummy dairy-free paneer substitute from tofu. Vegetarian Yellow Lentil Dhal RecipeA healthy vegetarian Indian food recipe. Mung dal, or Indian-flavored yellow lentils, are a traditional vegetarian Indian recipe. This easy version simmers the dal in vegetable broth, turmeric and cayenne for a spicy vegetarian Indian side dish. Vegetarian Red Lentil Indian Sambar RecipeSambar is a popular vegetarian Indian food dish, and this spicy lentil sambar recipe is vegan as well. Vegetarian red lentil sambar recipe reprinted with permission from "Vegan Fire & Spice: 200 Sultry and Savory Global Recipes" by chef Robin Robertson. Pineapple and Potato CurryThis potato, pineapple and coconut curry recipe tastes like its been simmering for hours, but its just the abundance of the spices and the rich coconut milk. If you like vegetarian Indian food, try this easy potato and coconut curry recipe. Easy Indian basmati rice recipeRestaurant-style Indian-flavored basmati rice recipe. Vegetarians and vegans can pair this simple rice dish with Indian-spiced lentils for a basic meal. Aloo Matar - Indian Potatoes and PeasThere are many, many different ways to prepare Aloo Matar, Indian spiced potatoes and peas. Some recipes use a coconut base, and others simmer the potatoes in a tomato sauce. This easy Indian recipe uses a few simple spices for a flavorful and tangy Indian food dish that is both vegetarian and vegan. Serve with rice, if desired. Roasted Red Pepper RelishRoasted Red Pepper Relish Indian vegetarian vegetablesMixed Indian vegetarian vegetable dish, called subji or sabzi. Vegetarian Curried Chickpeas and DahlVegetarian Curried Chickpeas and Dahl. Very similar to an Indian food breakfast dish. Quick and Easy Curried Indian ChickpeasThis vegetarian and vegan recipe for Indian chickpea curry uses prepared and canned ingredients so you can whip it up in a hurry - it really is a very quick and easy recipe. Even though it uses canned ingredients, you add lots of spices to give it a real Indian flavor. Indian Spiced Couscous SoupIndian Spiced Couscous Soup - a quick and easy vegetarian and vegan Indian food recipe with a bit of spicy kick! Spicy Indian Potatoes with ChiliesSpicy Indian Potatoes with Chilies. This is an easy vegetarian and vegan Indian food dish that really packs the heat. If you like your Indian food spicy, add a couple extra chilies, or cut back to reduce the spice a bit. Yellow Split Pea Dhal RecipeYellow Split Pea Dhal Recipe. Dhal, sometimes spelled dahl or dal, is a staple of Indian vegetarian cuisine. This easy recipe is for a basic vegetarian and vegan yellow split-pea dhal. Serve with rice, or, add extra liquid to make a more soup-like dhal. Aloo Matar (Indian Potatoes and Peas)There are many, many different ways to prepare Aloo Matar, vegetarian Indian spiced potatoes and peas. Some recipes use a coconut base, and others simmer the potatoes in a tomato sauce. This basic recipe uses a few simple spices for a flavorful and tangy Indian food dish that is both vegetarian and vegan. Vegan Orange Mango Lassi RecipeVegan Orange Mango Lassi Recipe. Though traditional Indian fruit lassi is made with yogurt, this vegan recipe uses tofu instead to get a creamy flavor. Try using other fruits, besides just mango, as well. Tropical fruits such as pineapple or papaya will work well. This vegan Indian food recipe is also sugar-free. Indian Palak "Paneer" with TofuTraditional Indian Palak Paneer is made from a soft cheese that is not aged, called paneer. Many westernized versions of this recipe with use ricotta for a reasonable fascimile. This recipe for Palak Paneer, however uses tofu instead of paneer, for a vegetarian and vegan dish. Indian Spiced Couscous Salad RecipeThis Indian-spiced couscous salad recipe certainly isn't a traditional Indian food recipe, but it is a healthy (and yummy!) dish suitable for a vegetarian or vegan main dish or side dish. Couscous salad is always a popular dish to bring to a vegetarian potluck. Indian Eggplant Stir-FryEggplant and broccoli make a great combination in this simple Indian style stir-fry recipe. This Indian food recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Serve over rice if desired. Broccoli and Tofu in Garlic SauceAnoyher easy Indian recipe - broccoli and tofu in garlic sauce is a vegan and vegetarian Indian-inspired entree that is easy to prepare. Vegetarian SamosasTraditionally, samosas are an Indian snack food, but I like to eat vegetarian samosas as an entree, or along with some other vegetarian Indian sides, such as rice and dal. However you prefer to eat your Indian samosas, be sure to serve them with a dipping sauce and enjoy your traditional Indian food meal! This samosa recipe is vegan as well as vegetarian. Crockpot Indian Vegetable CurryCrock pot vegetable curry is a one-pot meal that you can prepare in the morning and will fill your home with the aroma of Indian spices all day long. This recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Serve over rice if desired. Vegetarian red lentil curry recipeVegetarian red lentil curry recipe Easy Indian Aloo Gobi (Potatoes and Cauliflower)Easy Indian Aloo Gobi (Potatoes and Cauliflower)is a spicy vegetarian and vegan Indian dish. Serve with steamed rice if desired. Easy Indian Lemon RiceEasy Indian Lemon Rice Aloo Dum - Indian Spiced PotatoesVegetarian Indian aloo dum is a very simple recipe for potatoes cooked with a generous amount of Indian food spices for plenty of flavor. There are many different variations of aloo dum. This easy vegetarian and vegan version uses tomato sauce instead of yogurt. Curried Vegetarian Chickpea SaladCurried Vegetarian Chickpea Salad Mixed Indian VeggiesIf you like Indian spices such as curry or ginger, you'll love this recipe of mixed veggies simmered in a generous amount of aromatic spices. This recipe for curried veggies is both vegetarian and vegan. If you don't happen to have all of the spices on hand, feel free to skip one or two, but anymore than that and you will miss the authentic Indian flavor of this dish. Coconut Curried VegetablesCoconut Curried Vegetables Tomato Marinara CurryWho said marinara had to be Italian? This Indian-fusion recipe is heartier than most marinara sauces, so it can be served over rice, grains or pasta. Feel free to toss in some extra veggies such as eggplant, sauteed celery or diced carrots as well. Coconut and Tofu CurryAlthough this vegetarian and vegan curry recipe isn't authentic to any ethnic cuisine per se, I find that the mild flavor really gets absorbed into the tofu and blends well with the rich coconut flavor. When served over rice, tofu curry makes for a great entree. If you're bored with the usual vegan recipes, or have some tofu on hand you need to use up, this easy dish is just right. Vegan Tofu Mango LassiVegan Tofu Mango Lassi Raw Food Cilantro Mint ChutneyThis Indian food chutney recipe is quick and easy, with all of the benefits of a raw food diet. Use this chutney recipe as a condiment with many meals and bring the taste of India to your table. Charred eggplant and potato curryEggplant, potato and tomato curry - Vegetarian and vegan Indian food recipe Tandoori tofu recipeTofu marinates in tandoori spices and is grilled until crispy in this vegetarian grilled tofu recipe. Turmeric Tea RecipeYogi Bhajan, founder of the Yogi Tea brand, recommends this hot turmeric and almond oil tea for joint and bone health. Putting oil in tea may seem strange at first, but I promise the result is heavenly, just be sure to use almond oil and not a substitute! Fried paneer pakoraAh fried cheese, is there anything more indulgent? Fried Indian paneer cheese, battered and fried like a traditional Indian pakora is absolutely delicious. Enjoy them as is, with a chutney or barbecue sauce. Low-fat baked samosas with mintIf you like samosas, try this low-fat baked version, made with fresh mint, mashed potatoes and peas. They're vegetarian and vegan and go great with just about any other Indian food recipes to make a complete meal. Madras curry vegetable soup recipeA homemade vegetarian and vegan Indian coconut curried soup recipe spiced with Madras curry powder, which has a unique and rich taste distinct from other curry blends. Vegetarian "Chicken" MasalaVegetarian "Chicken" Masala Raw Curried Cabbage SaladThis is an unusual twist to the traditional coleslaw recipe. Cabbage is mixed with curry and other spices for a vegetarian and vegan salad. This recipe is also a raw, living foods recipe. Quick and easy vegetarian broccoli and potato curry recipeA quick and easy curry recipe using broccoli and potatoes cooked in an Indian-spiced tomato sauce mixture with garam masala, cumin, chili powder and cayenne pepper. This simple and healthy side dish is both vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free. Indian Spiced Chai TeaImpress your friends with a pot of fresh homemade chai spiced tea! I like to use maple syrup for a richer taste, instead of the traditional honey. Vegetarian Gobhi Methi (Fenugreek spiced cauliflower)This vegetarian Indian recipe for gobhi methi is cooked cauliflower flavored generously with fenugreek and traditional Indian spices. Vegetarian Indian recipes are really all about the spices, so be sure you have plenty on hand. Serve with rice or chapatis. Indian Naan BreadUsually, most vegetarian Indian recipes are served with rice or bread. This vegetarian Indian recipe for naan (flat bread) can be used to scoop up your veggies or can just be eaten on its own. Quick curried potatoes and spinach Here's a simple way to use up your leftover Indian spices by making an easy side dish of new potatoes and spinach. It's not a fancy or particularly authentic Indian dish, but it is quick, easy, wholesome and delicious, as well as vegetarian, vegan, and gluten-free. Grilled paneer cheese in tandoori seasoningIndian paneer cheese works well on your indoor or outdoor grill, as it chars lightly instead of melting away like other cheeses. In this Indian tandoori-inspired recipe, paneer cheese is coated in a yogurt sauce, smothered in tandoori spices, and grilled on skewers just until lightly charred. Serve it up with extra sauce. Yum! Masala Dhal - Yellow and Red LentilsIndian vegetarian dhal is a must to serve with any vegetarian Indian meal, along with rice, of course! This recipe for dhal - lentils - uses red and yellow lentils for a fund combination. Make sure you have plenty of Indian spices on hand when you make this vegetarian and vegan dhal recipe. Vegan naan recipeVegan naan recipe Indian Fried Okra - Kurkuri BhindiI think okra is one of those foods most people either love or hate. Having spent some time living in and eating my way through the southern states in the US, I'm definitely an okra lover! This vegetarian Indian recipe is a traditional way to fry up some okra. Serve with rice. Yellow Indian Rice - Peas PulaoYou may have had this yellow Indian rice while enjoying a vegetarian Indian meal at an Indian restaurant. This popular dish is tasty on its own, or served topped with dhal or subji. Chana Masala (Spicy Chickpeas) with SpinachChana masala with spinach is a vegetarian variation of a traditional and popular Indian food dish. If you don't have all the spices on hand, its ok to omit one of them without too much trouble, but don't omit more than two or you will have a completely different (and bland!) dish on your hands. For a heartier variation, toss in some tofu with... Cucumber LassiLassi is a traditional Indian yogurt drink. This vegetarian cucumber lassi recipe can be made vegan by using a soy vegan yogurt. Palak Ki Daal (Indian Lentils and Spinach)A traditional vegetarian dhal recipe calling for muung dahl (yellow lentils), chilie, ghee and turmeric. Very flavorful! Raw Food Cardamom LassiRaw food meets the taste of India with this recipe for a Raw Food Cardamom Lassi. This simple, quick raw food diet creation is sure to make your mouth water, as it is supposed to! Tomatoes Stuffed with Indian Spiced VegetablesA spicy vegetarian and vegan Indian food recipe that can be prepared in advance and heated when you're ready to eat. Vegetarian Spiced Dhal with TomatoesAnother vegetarian Indian food recipe for a flavorful and spicey dhal with fresh tomatoes. Vegetarian Cauliflower and Potato Curry RecipeVegetarian cauliflower and potato curry, also called Indian aloo gobi is a popular vegetarian Indian curry dish. This is an easy version, but make sure you have all the Indian spices on hand before you try this recipe. Easy Vegetarian Rajma (Curried Kidney Beans)As far as Indian vegetarian recipes go, this one is really quite simple and easy to make. There is also no ghee in this recipe, making it both vegetarian and vegan. Rajma is a vegetarian Indian dish best served over rice. You can also add in some chopped vegetables for a fuller dish.  Orange or red lentils with tomato (Masoor Dal)ORANGE SPLIT LENTILS WITH TOMATOES AND CILANTRO (Tomato Dhoney Pata Diye Masoor Dal)