Caramelised Garlic Tart Recipe

This Caramalised Garlic Tart is perfect for lunches, dinner or as picnic treat

Apple and Blackberry Pie Recipe

An easy and simple Apple and Blackberry Pie Recipe is a classic dessert or tea time treat.

Apple Crumble Recipe

There is nothing more a quintessentially British pudding than a delicious apple crumble. So quick and easy to make, you will love it.

Caramelised Red Onion Tart with Walnut Pastry Recipe

A delicious Caramelised Red Onion Tart Recipe that can be served hot or cold and still has that wow factor.

Cauliflower and Chicken Curry

Cauliflower and Chicken Curry Recipe is quick and easy to make and a great way to use a simple cauliflower.

Bangers and Mash aka Sausage and Mash Recipe

Bangers and Mash - Sausage and Mash Recipe

Carrot and Bean Burgers with Guilt-Free Coleslaw Recipe

Carrot and Bean Burgers make a healthy, nutritious alternative to a burger containing meat with no loss of flavour.

Cauliflower Cheese with Leek Recipe

Cauliflower is an all-time favourite British recipe, there are many variations of the standard recipe but this one with added leeks makes it even more delicious.

Carrot and Ginger Soup with Lemon Cream Recipe

This Carrot and Ginger Soup with Lemon Cream Recipe is perfect for a cold winter's day

Carrot and Root Vegetable Crumble Recipe

Simply because a dish is meat-free does not mean it cant' be hearty and nourishing as can be seen with the carrot and root vegetable casserole.

Cauliflower, Broccoli and Mustard Soup

This Cauliflower, Broccoli and Mustard Soup is quick and easy to make, perfect as a starter or main served with crusty bread.

Cauliflower and Chickpea Curry

A nutritious and easy to make Cauliflower and Chicken Curry Recipe

Cheese and Onion Puff Pie Recipe

Ideal for lunch is this Cheese and Onion Puff Pie that is quick to prepare.

Chicken Balti Curry Recipe

Chicken Balti curry is one of Britain's favourite curries, quick and easy to make.

Cheesy Ploughman's Salad Recipe

Cheesy Ploughmans is a great autumnal salad of salad leaves topped with cheesy croutes and ploughmans's pickle. A great snack, supper or lunch dish.

Best Fish and Chips Recipe

Fish and Chips are the British national dish and though you can buy great fish and chips from a fish and chip shop, even better, you can make your own with this lovely fish and chips recipe.

Best Chip Recipe - MAke the Best Chips

What Makes the Perfect Chip in this Best Chip Recipe.

Chicken Pie Recipe - British Chicken, Leek and Mushroom Pie

This chicken pie recipe is easy to make, and in a hurry, you can use ready made pastry. Using meat from the legs and thighs of the chicken not only gives a richer flavor, these cuts are also much cheaper.

Chicken Tikka Masala

A delightfully simple and quick Chicken Tikka Masala recipe. This Chicken Tikka Masala Recipe gives a creamy finished dish.

Chicken and Leek Soup

This Chicken and Leek soup is also known as Cock-a-Leekie Soup in Scotland

Chicken Gravy Recipe

A delicious accompaniment with your roast bird is Chicken Gravy

Braised Lamb Shanks - Recipes - Braised Lamb Shanks Recipe

One of my favorite recipes for slowly cooked, Braised Lamb Shanks

Chickpea Curry - Chickpea Curry Recipe

A quick and easy Chickpea Curry Recipe that is better if made a day in advance

Chicken, Leek, Prune and Caerphilly Cheese Pie

Leeks are the national emblem of Wales and a great dish of leeks to celebrate St David's Day is a Chicken, Leek, Prune and Caerphilly Cheese Pie.

Chocolate Buttercream Icing Recipe

Delicious, sweet, buttercream icing, the perfect partner for cakes, buns and cupcakes

Classic Victoria Sponge Cake Recipe

A Victoria Sponge Cake is a classic British cake and is named after Queen Victoria who loved a slice with her afternoon tea.

Chocolate and Cream Swiss Roll Recipe

A chocolate and cream Swiss Roll is decadent, rich and delicious. Not the easiest cake to make but with patience you can achieve a perfect Swiss Roll every time.

Bread Sauce Recipe

A simple and quick, Bread Sauce recipe. This recipe is a stalwart of the British kitchen and a classic on the British Christmas table.

Chocolate Cake Recipe: Guinness and Orange Moist Chocolate Cake Recipe

This Guinness and Orange Moist Chocolate Cake Recipe is an ideal tea-time treat and is so easy to make.

Chocolate Macaron Recipe: Make the Perfect Macaron Every Time

Macarons do have a reputation for being difficult to make. Perhaps they aren't the easiest but with a few helpful tips and hints, you can make perfect Macarons every time.

Chocolate Souffle Recipe

A beautiful Chocolate Souffle recipe that is easy to make

Cider and Pork Casserole Recipe

A fabulous combination of pork with cider makes this cider and pork casserole a winner every time.

Chocolate Truffle Recipe - Caraway Chocolate Truffle

Chocolate Truffles that will go down a treat

Chocolate, Pistachio and Almond Brownies

A Chocolate, Pistachio and Almond Brownie recipe that is easy to make and everyone will love

Christmas Recipes: Old Fashioned Ginger Biscuits for Christmas Decorations

Old fashioned, traditional gingerbread biscuits perfect for Gingerbread Christmas Decorations

Burns Night Recipes: Haggis, Tatties and Neeps Recipe

Haggis, Tatties and Neeps Recipe is the quintessential dish for a Burn's Night Supper

Bubble and Squeak Recipe

How to make the perfect Bubble and Squeak. A quick and easy dish using leftover vegetables particularly mashed potato.

Classic Sauces for Asparagus

A selection of sauces to serve with asparagus.

Cornish Pasties

The Cornish pasty is known and loved throughout Great Britain and Ireland.

Clementine and Lemon Posset Recipe

This is a quick and easy Clementine and Lemon Posset Recipe

Cod in Tomato and Pepper Sauce Recipe

A nutritious and simple to make recipe for Cod in Tomato and Pepper Sauce Recipe

Cranachan, Scottish Cranachan, Cranachan Recipe

This Scottish Cranachan Recipe is simple to make and is perfect to serve at any dinner party or special occasion.

Colcannon - Recipe for Colcannon

Colcannon is a favorite Irish recipe and a particular favorite on St Patrick's Day. It is a quick, easy and simple Irish recipe to make, as you can see from this Colcannon recipe,

Cod with a Herb Crust - Cod with a Herb Crust Recipe

Cod with a Herb Crust - Cod with a Herb Crust Recipe

Crab and Prawn Pasty Recipe

A traditional pasty recipe will invariably contain meat but a delicious alternative is a Crab and Prawn Pasty. This pasty recipe is light yet very nutritious with such a lovely filling.

Crab, Carrot and Corinader Pithiviers Recipe

A traditional Pithiviers is usually a sweet pie-like dish but can also feature savoury filling to ring the changes as you can see in this Crab, Carrot and Coriander version.

Cranberry Sauce Recipe

Turkey just would not taste the same without this delicious Cranberry Sauce Recipe

Cream of Asparagus Soup with Poached Egg Recipe

Cream of Asparagus Soup with Poached Egg

Custard - Custard Recipe

Custard, the perfect partner for British puddings and desserts. Custard sauce, as it is also known, is such an easy recipe to make.

Dublin Coddle Recipe

Coddle is a traditional Irish dish usually associated with Dublin and known also as Dublin Coddle. This Dublin Coddle recipe is comfort food of the highest degree.

Creamed Leeks and Smoked Haddock Recipe

Recipe for Creamed Leeks and Smoked Haddock

Crunchy Carrot Flapjack Recipe

Super, simple, crunchy carrot flapjack is simple to make, delicious to eat, healthy and nutritious.

Creme Fraiche Ice Cream Recipe

This Creme fraiche ice cream recipe works really well with sweet, ripe summer berries like strawberries or raspberries.

Decadent Chocolate Cream Recipe - Chocolate Cream Recipe

This Decadent Chocolate Cream Recipe is quick, simple and easy to prepare and makes a superb dessert for special occasions

Devil's Chicken Recipe

This Devil's Chicken Recipe is great for the BBQ or cooked just as easy in the oven

Chocolate and Orange Hot Cross Buns

A tasty adaptation of the quick, easy traditional hot cross bun recipe using a little chocolate and orange.

Duck, Toasted Sesame and Asparagus Recipe

Fabulous oriental-style quick and easy recipe for British asparagus and fine beef.

Easy Cheese Scone Recipe

Home made cheese scones are a delicious savoury treat especially for afternoon tea. Savoury cheese scones are made quickly and easily as you can see in this easy cheese scones recipe.