Casserole recipes are great for busy cooks. Throw all the ingredients into one dish and cook it all together to save time in the kitchen.

Amaretto Chicken & Creamed Noodles Recipe

Quick chicken casserole uses canned soup, vegetables, mushrooms, amaretto, and noodles with a creamy sauce. It may seem like a lot of ingredients, but this goes together quite fast to make a hearty meal. If you use large chicken breast halves, cut each in half to serve and this will easily feed 8 people.

American Shepherd's Pie Recipe

American Shepherd's Pie Recipe. Meat, potatoes, and vegetables all in one dish.

Avocado and Chicken Casserole Recipe

Avocados top a cheesy chicken and noodle casserole that gets a little kick from chiles.

Baked Mashed Potatoes Recipe

Gruyere and Parmesan cheeses give a kick to this easy baked dish combining mashed potatoes with savory sauteed onions and celery.

Baked Pasta with Zucchini and Mozzarella Recipe

Zucchini, black olives, tomatoes, and mozzarella are tossed with pasta and baked for a filling casserole.

Baked Rigatoni with Eggplant and Garlic Sauce Recipe

A simple garlic sauce with herbs and Parmesan cheese flavors this eggplant casserole. Recipe is easily doubled.

Baked Risotto Primavera Recipe

Baked Risotto Primavera Recipe. Nutty brown rice takes the place of traditional arborio in this updated risotto which requires no stirring. Asparagus, sugar snap peas, and sweet red bell pepper give added flavor and color.

Baked Ziti Recipe

Traditional Italian-style casserole combines ziti pasta with marinara sauce, mozzarella, Parmesan cheese, and baked for a quick, hearty meal.

Broccoli Cheese Rice Recipe

This easy casserole combines broccoli, rice, sweet onions, cheese, and cream of mushroom soup. It is a hand-me-down recipe (affectionately known as Goop) that is always requested for gatherings and potluck dinners. This can be put together hours ahead of time, and just let it rest on the counter until ready to bake. In fact, it will cook faster...

Broccoli Deep-Dish Pizza Recipe

Broccoli Deep-Dish Pizza Recipe. Make Chicago-style deep-dish pizza from scratch, with broccoli, mushrooms, Italian sausage, and plenty of mozzarella cheese.

Cabbage Au Gratin Recipe

Cabbage is tossed with a tomato mixture then baked with a topping of bread crumbs and Cheddar cheese. This dish goes together fast and has a short baking time.

Chicken Biryiani Recipe

This Mid-Eastern chicken and rice casserole is intricately, but mildly spiced and rich with flavor of nuts and fruits.

Chicken Broccoli Amandine Recipe

This casserole is a fast and easy way to use up leftover cooked chicken or a rotisserie chicken from the market. It is colorful with broccoli, rich with Cheddar cheese, and the almonds give a nice crunch to the topping. Serve with or over hot rice for a full meal.

How to Make Chicken & Broccoli Stuffed Bread Recipe

Savory chicken and broccoli are stuffed into a braided loaf made from crescent rolls. Photos show you each step. Classy and easy.

Chicken Divan Recipe

This classic recipe uses broccoli and cooked chicken in a creamy sherry sauce, a favorite comfort food and good way to use leftovers.

Chicken or Turkey Tetrazzini Recipe

Macaroni and cheese is fast and easy to make with this recipe.

Chicken Rice Casserole with Mozzarella Recipe

Non-fat sour cream and skim milk mozzarella give zing to this Weight Watcher's recipe for basic chicken and rice baked as a casserole. You may use brown rice or traditional white rice. Smoked turkey may be substituted for the chicken.

Chinese Turkey Vegetable Casserole Recipe

Chinese vegetables and mushrooms give this turkey casserole its Oriental slant.

Church Supper Chicken and Wild Rice Hot Dish Recipe

Mushrooms, cheese, and cream spark this chicken and wild rice casserole. This easy casserole makes enough to feed a family of 8.

Clam Potato Pie Recipe

Fresh clams are mixed with potatoes, and topped with a Cheddar cream sauce that makes its own crust. Cherrystone, littleneck, and topneck clams work well in this recipe.

Clam Stuffed Trout Recipe

Fresh trout filets are filled with a savory stuffing and baked with a cheese sauce. Quick and easy. If you cannot find trout filets, any thin whitefish filet will work, such as tilapia or catfish.

Country French Apple Crescent Casserole Recipe

Make this luscious apple crescent casserole as a breakfast or brunch treat, although it is good enough for dessert.

Cranberry Yam Casserole Recipe

Cranberries and spices make a wonderful addition to yams or sweet potatoes.

Creamed Corn Gratin Recipe

Canned creamed corn is enhanced with bacon, sweet onions, thyme, and Parmesan cheese. It is cooked primarily on the stovetop, then quickly browned under the broiler.

Creole Gumbo Recipe

Use crab, shrimp or chicken for this classic Cajun Creole gumbo casserole.

Easy Macaroni and Cheese Recipe

Macaroni and cheese is fast and easy to make with this recipe.

Easy Scalloped Potatoes Recipe

Easy Scalloped Potatoes Recipe. Rich and cheesy, these scalloped potatoes are easy to make.

English Chicken Mushroom Casserole Recipe

This mushroom casserole combines hearty vegetables with chicken for a filling meal. If you are unable to find mushroom broth, you may substitute vegetable broth.

Fennel Chicken and Rice Recipe

Rice cooks along with chicken and fennel seed for an incredibly easy and tasty dish.

Frank Sinatra's Eggplant Parmigiana Recipe

The crooner's own eggplant Parmesan recipe comes from his book which benefits a children's hospital in California. An easy homemade tomato sauce recipe is also included.

Garlic Parmesan Oyster Casserole Recipe

This fast and easy casserole is rich with the flavor of oysters, garlic, and Parmesan cheese. Feel free to experiment with other seafood in place of the oysters.

Green Bean Casserole Recipe

Baby boomers fondly remember the simple classic green bean casserole as a Thanksgiving favorite. It is considered almost decadent these days with cream of mushroom soup and crispy fried onions on top. Feel free to make the noted substitutions to fit your diet, but it won't taste quite the same.

Ham and Sweet Potato Casserole Recipe

Ham and Sweet Potato Casserole Recipe. Sweet potatoes are seasoned with nutmeg and orange peel then layered with ham and mustard. Baked and topped with sesame seeds, this dish is sure to please family or guests.

Hash Brown Potato Casserole Recipe

Hash Brown Potato Casserole Recipe. Easy and quick to put together, this hash brown potato casserole is great for parties, potluck dinners, buffets, or family dinners.

Inside-Out Ravioli Recipe

Pasta is combined with spinach and cheddar cheese, then topped with a tomato meat sauce and baked as a casserole. Makes a hearty and filling one-dish meal.

Irish Boiled Dinner Recipe

Hearty Irish brisket is slow-cooked with cabbage, leeks, carrots, potatoes, and turnips. Beer gives depth and richness to the broth without lending any beer flavor.

Layered Swiss Chard, Ham, and Cheese Custard Recipe

Layered Swiss Chard, Ham, and Cheese Custard Recipe. This dish is good chilled, at room temperature, or hot. Cut into small cubes for an appetizer.

Leek and Cheese Matzoh Pie Recipe

Leek and Cheese Matzoh Pie Recipe. Softened matzoh is used like a lasagna noodle with a leek, onion, and Gruyere cheese filling.

Leek and Mushroom Quiche Recipe

Savory leeks and mushrooms take the place of cheese in this quiche. If you are under time constraints, you may use frozen bread dough for the crust to save time.

Lobster Puff Casserole Recipe

This delicious seafood dish is somewhere in between a souffle and a mousse. Elegant enough for any occasion, yet easy to make. You may make individual lobster puff servings by using single-serving ramekins. Reduce the cooking time accordingly. Try substituting crab or shrimp for the lobster for a less expensive dish.

Lucky Black-Eyed Peas & Sausage Casserole Recipe

Black-eyed peas and collards are considered good luck for New Year's. This recipe kicks it up a notch with sausage and a cornbread topping.

Loco Taco Stuffed Peppers Recipe

Spice up boring stuffed peppers with taco flavors of tortilla chips, salsa, chiles, cheese, and rice. The heat level is adjustable to suit your tastes.

Mexican Lasagna Recipe

Traditional Mexican ingredients come together in a layered casserole. Flour tortillas replace the pasta used in lasagna. This makes a filling meal. It is an excellent way to stretch ground beef.

Make Ahead Mashed Potatoes Recipe

Make these mashed potatoes up to a week ahead of time so you can concentrate on the rest of the meal.

Moussaka Recipe

This classic Greek dish includes not only traditional eggplant and lamb, but also potatoes for a hearty casserole.

Noonie's Zucchini Casserole Recipe

Noonie's Zucchini Casserole Recipe. This old-fashioned zucchini casserole is incredibly simple and fast to throw together. The ingredients are few, but the flavor is bold.

Peach Yam Casserole Recipe

Take a break from traditional sweet potatoes and yams at Thanksgiving and try this version with peaches. This recipe uses canned yams (sweet potatoes) and peaches, but you can also use home-baked or boiled yams and fresh peaches.

Polenta Lasagna Recipe

Polenta takes the place of noodles in this layered lasagna. The hearty filling includes ground beef, sausage, mushrooms, and onions.

Quick Chicken Pot Pie Recipe

This version of chicken pot pie is cooked on the stove-top and served over warm biscuits. Fast and easy to make.

Red Snapper with Rosemary-Scented Shallot Confit Recipe

Red snapper is layered over potatoes with shallots and rosemary for a deliciously different casserole. Other mild whitefish fillets such as flounder, sole, or tilapia may be substituted for the snapper.

Sausage Mozzarella Supper for a Crowd Recipe

Baked sausage mozzarella pasta is perfect for large parties. To jazz it up a little and lend some color, try adding some green bell peppers to the vegetable sauce mixture. The pasta casseroles may be prepared in advance, covered, and refrigerated. This recipe is easily cut in half for smaller crowds.

Sausage Omelet Pie Recipe

This sausage omelet pie recipe works well as a dinner meal or for a brunch. The concept is simple. It is a meat crust with an omelet filling. It is easy to make and makes a filling meal.

Sausage, Ricotta and Mozzarella Lasagne Recipe

Use no-boil lasagna noodles, jarred tomato sauce, and pre-shredded mozzarella cheese in this classic Italian casserole to save time. Ricotta is a soft cheese, with a texture like gritty sour cream. It should be readily available in the dairy case of your local market.

Scalloped Potatoes with Broccoli and Ham Recipe

Scalloped Potatoes with Broccoli and Ham Recipe. Put this hearty casserole together in about 15 minutes, then put it in the oven and forget about it for about an hour. Easy and filling.

Seafood Paella Recipe

Seafood, rice, vegetables, and saffron are the key ingredients in a classic paella. This version is loaded with shrimp, squid, and scallops. The rice is flavored with a stock made of the shrimp shells.

Six-Million-Dollar Manicotti Recipe

This is a low-fat version of manicotti stuffed with chicken, carrots, zucchini, mushrooms, and herbs with low-fat cheeses.

Skillet Mac and Cheese Recipe

This version of mac and cheese cuts down on the fat and calories while still maintaining flavor.

Skillet Chicken & Mushroom Potpie Recipe

Chicken pot pie is a classic comfort food for many. Here it is reinvented in a skillet version with the addition of yummy shiitake mushrooms and topped with crunchy bread. The dish is finished off in the oven, so make sure you begin with a deep oven-proof skillet such as hard-anodized or well-seasoned cast iron.

Southwestern Shepherd's Pie with Chicken and Chili Mashed Potatoes Recipe

Although this recipe may appear lengthy, it is very easy to make.

Sunchoke Daylily Casserole Recipe

Sunchokes (Jerusalem artichokes) are seasoned with garlic, turmeric, tarragon, and chili paste, then baked with tofu and walnuts.

Sweet Potato Shepherd's Pie Recipe

This twist on traditional shepherd's pie uses ground beef, sweet potatoes, spinach, and hard-boiled eggs.

Tallerina Recipe

As Esme said in the popular Twilight novel, "Bella, we are making Italiano for you." This is an easy version of an Italian-style pasta casserole using ground beef, noodles, olives, mushrooms, corn, and cheese. Try this one for your Twilight party.

Tater Tot Muffins Recipe

Tired of the same old potato side dish? Try these delicious potato muffins flavored with bacon, sour cream, Cheddar cheese, and chives.

Tuna Casserole Recipe

This is a popular comfort food dish for baby boomers. It's far from gourmet, but it is hearty, heart-warming, easy, quick, and inexpensive. You can substitute crab, lobster, salmon, chicken or turkey for the tuna with equal results.

Thyme-Out Cheesy Potatoes Recipe

Not for the faint of heart, thyme and three cheeses make this potato dish very rich.

Turkey and Wild Rice Casserole Recipe

Mushrooms and cheese blend with turkey and wild rice for a satisfying casserole.

Turkey Artichoke Pie Recipe

The pie crust is made of brown rice and spinach. The filling includes turkey, mushrooms, artichokes, cheese, and spices. It's a meal in a pie. Feel free to substitute chicken for the turkey.

Turkey Filbert Casserole Recipe

Leftover cooked turkey shines in this casserole featuring pasta, filberts/hazelnuts, and mushrooms.

Turkey Mornay on Broccoli Recipe

Cooked turkey and ham are layered on top of broccoli, covered with a rich, creamy white wine sauce and baked. Cooked chicken may be substituted for the turkey.

Turkey, Leek, Broccoli Pie with Potato Crust Recipe

Turkey, Leek, Broccoli Pie with Potato Crust Recipe. This quiche recipe is filling enough to satisfy the heartiest appetite.

Ultimate Spinach and Turkey Lasagna Recipe

Flavorful lasagna is low-calorie and low fat thanks to skim cheeses and ground turkey.

White Chicken Asparagus Lasagna Recipe

White Chicken Asparagus Lasagna Recipe. Layers of white mushroom sauce, pasta, chicken, lasagna, roasted red peppers, and cheese make an unusual lasagna.

Yankee Doodle Noodles Recipe

Noodles, cooked turkey, and artichoke hearts in a casserole enriched by evaporated milk and cheese.

Easy Chicken Pot Pie Casserole Recipe

This casserole combines chicken pot pie with chicken and dumplings into a hearty casserole.

Ham and Broccoli Macaroni & Cheese Recipe

Macaroni and cheese is a great side dish. Add ham and broccoli to this homemade casserole to make it a complete meal.