These recipes use fresh turkey, ground turkey, cooked turkey and turkey leftovers. Many can be adjusted to use chicken instead or turkey parts.

All Turkey Recipes

All turkey recipes listed alphabetically. The recipes use turkey parts, ground turkey, and cooked turkey.

Boneless Stuffed Turkey Recipe

Boneless Stuffed Turkey Recipe. You can fit more stuffing in a boneless turkey and have an easier time carving it to boot.

Bourbon Turkey Recipe

Oriental and Southern U.S. flavors come together in marinated turkey made with bourbon.

Chinese Turkey with Eight-Treasure Stuffing Recipe

Soy sauce, ginger, mushrooms, and chestnuts give a Chinese flair to rice stuffing for turkey.

Deep-Fried Turkey Recipe

The turkey is fried whole in a fraction of the time it takes to bake, resulting in a brown and crispy skin and tender meat.

Fiesta Turkey Loaf or Burgers Recipe

Fiesta Turkey Loaf or Burgers Recipe. This turkey meatloaf is far from bland! Salsa, tortilla chips, and cheese give it a Mexican flair that shouts flavor. Also great for turkey burgers.

Glazed Turkey Breasts with Cranberry and Chestnut Stuffing Recipe

Turkey slices are stuffed with savory dressing made with canned chestnuts and cranberries.

Hearty Harvest Meatloaf Recipe

Vegetables, rice, and ground turkey make an economical meatloaf. You can also substitute ground chicken.

Herb and Garlic-Scented Turkey Recipe

Turkey is roasted with a compound herb butter with rosemary and sage. It is stuffed with more herbs and a full head of whole garlic cloves, then roasted to perfection in a wine bath.

Hot Dog Vegetable Stew Recipe

This vegetable stew is loaded with hot dogs as well as veggies. It's a hearty recipe your kids will enjoy and adults, too.

How to Debone a Turkey - Step by step recipe instructions.

Learn how to debone a turkey for stuffing. Step by step recipe instructions with photos show how to remove the bones to make a boneless turkey suitable for stuffing.

How to Make Turducken Recipe - Step by Step Recipe

Step by step recipe instructions with photos show how to make turducken, which is a chicken stuffed inside a duck stuffed inside a turkey.

How to Make Turducken Recipe - Step by Step Recipe Continued

Step by step recipe instructions with photos show how to make turducken, which is a chicken stuffed inside a duck stuffed inside a turkey.

How to Thaw Frozen Turkey Recipe

Learn how to safely thaw your frozen turkey to avoid the danger of foodborne illness.

Lemon Turkey Cutlets Recipe

Lemon in the egg dip gives the flavor to quick and easy fried turkey cutlets.

Low-Fat Stuffed Cabbage Recipe

Raisins, ground turkey, and spices make a delicious, yet low-fat stuffing for cabbage leaves.

Roast Turkey Breast Recipe

If you don't care for dark meat or you don't need a whole turkey, try roasting just the turkey breast.

Smoked Turkey Jerky Recipe

Cooked turkey is sliced thin and spiced with ginger and soy sauce to make this turkey jerky.

Spicy Turkey Breakfast Patties Recipe

Breakfast sausage patties are made with ground turkey, fresh herbs, and spices.

Sweet Potato and Turkey Croquettes Recipe

This is a great recipe for leftover turkey and potatoes. You can also substitute ham, duck, chicken, or goose for the turkey.

Tasty Turkey Chili Recipe

Tasty Turkey Chili Recipe. This chili made with ground turkey not only tastes good, but it's also heart healthy and easy enough for kids to make.

Are you panicking about making your first Thanksgiving feast? Calm down, take a deep breath, and find out all you need to know about how to cook classic Thanksgiving favorite dishes. Get your recipes lined up, make your shopping list, and plan ahead. Be prepared to impress your friends and loved ones with the perfect Thanksgiving meal.

Thanksgiving Roast Stuffed Turkey Recipe

Step-by-step instructions on how to roast a stuffed or unstuffed turkey for Thanksgiving or any occasion.

Tiny Tot Turkey (Baby Food) Recipe

Turkey, vegetables, and rice make a one dish meal for your toddler.

Tropical Turkey Recipe

Turkey breast is baked and served with a sauce flavored with orange juice, bananas, and coconut rum.

Turducken Recipe

Each slice of turducken contains portions of chicken, duck, and turkey with stuffing in between the layers.

Turkey Artichoke Pie Recipe

Turkey Artichoke Pie Recipe. The pie crust is made of brown rice and spinach. The filling includes turkey, mushrooms, artichokes, cheese, and spices. It's a meal in a pie.

Turkey Breast with Pineapple-Orange Sauce Recipe

Sweet pineapple and orange sauce tops turkey cooked in a foil pouch for easy clean-up.

Turkey Cutlets With Mustard Cream Pan Sauce Recipe

Mustard and heavy cream flavor the gravy for easy turkey cutlets.

Turkey Florentine Recipe

Use leftover cooked turkey with spinach to create this creamy dish. It is also good over pasta.

Turkey Hotlines

Many turkey producers have holiday and year-round hotlines to give help on cooking a turkey, food safety issues, serving and recipe suggestions, and more.

Turkey Jerky Recipe

The mild flavor of turkey makes a perfect starting point for your favorite flavors in this turkey jerky recipe.

Turkey Leftovers Recipes

These recipes are perfect for using up leftover cooked turkey. Try such leftover turkey recipes as Turkey Filbert Casserole, Turkey Florentine, Sweet Potato and Turkey Croquettes, Turkey Tetrazzini with Spaghetti Squash, and more.

Turkey Meat Loaf Recipe - South Beach Diet Recipe Phase 2

Turkey Meat Loaf Recipe - South Beach Diet Recipe Phase 2. It may be a diet recipe, but there's no skimping on taste. Flavorful ground turkey meat loaf is flavored with tomato paste, red wine, garlic, basil, oregano, and zucchini with a fiber-rich binder of oatmeal.

Turkey Mornay on Broccoli Recipe

Cooked turkey and ham are layered on top of broccoli, covered with a rich, creamy white wine sauce and baked.

Turkey Scalloppini with Capers and Lemon Recipe

This turkey recipe with capers, garlic, and wine is quick and easy and will feed a crowd.

Turkey Tetrazzini with Spaghetti Squash Recipe

Turkey Tetrazzini with Spaghetti Squash Recipe. Spaghetti squash takes the place of pasta in traditional turkey tetrazzini.

Turkey, Ham, and Vegetable Hash Recipe

Turkey and ham liven up traditional potato hash. Chicken may be substituted for the chicken.

Turkey, Leek, Broccoli Pie with Potato Crust Recipe

Turkey, Leek, Broccoli Pie with Potato Crust Recipe. This quiche recipe is filling enough to satisfy the heartiest appetite.

Ultimate Spinach and Turkey Lasagna Recipe

Ground turkey lessens the fat in this flavorful low-calorie lasagna, along with skim cheeses.

Wild Turkey Wild Turkey Recipe

Wild turkey (or domesticated) strips are marinated in honey, bourbon, mustard, and Worcestershire sauce.