Browse your way through a variety of tempting dessert recipes including cakes, cookies, brownies, pies, ice cream, custard, gelatin, and more.

5 Minute Frozen Peach Yogurt Recipe

You will need a food processor for delicious peach yogurt that may be served immediately without freezing.

All Dessert Recipes

Alphabetical listing of all dessert recipes including sub-categories for cakes, cookies, pies, and more.

Amaretto Chantilly Recipe

This easy dessert has a surprisingly light texture yet is full of the rich flavors of almonds and cherries.

Ann Reinking's Brown Sugar Rice Pudding Recipe

Dried cherries take the place of raisins in this brown sugar sweetened rice pudding.

Apple Brown Betty Recipe

Apple brown betty recipe is a classic dessert dating back to colonial America. Think of it as an apple pie or cobbler with a topping of sweetened, buttered bread crumbs instead of a dough or batter topping.

Apple Brown Betty Recipe

Spiced apples are covered with a sweet, crumbly topping. This is a classic Southern dessert that is simple and easy.

Apricot Fritters Recipe

Fresh apricots are stuffed with almonds, drizzled with a bit of rum, dipped in a spiced batter, and then fried golden.

Avocado Ice Cream Recipe

Wow your friends with ice cream made from avocados. It is cool and refreshing, but not overly sweet.

Banana Flambe Recipe

Rum is flamed to finish this simple banana dessert dish.

Banana Rum Puffs Recipe

Pastry purses filled with bananas, cream cheese, and rum are baked and dusted with powdered sugar.

Bar Cookie Recipes

Bar cookies are great for bake sales or when you need a lot of dessert that can be eaten without utensils. Try such bar cookie recipes as Cranberry Pineapple Bars, Almond Amaretto Bars, Black Forest Buttermilk Bars, Homemade Protein Bars, Lemon Butter Chews, and more.

Ben & Jerry's Kiwi Ice Cream Recipe

Exotic kiwifruit is a favorite flavor of Ben & Jerry's ice cream fans. Make your own at home with this easy recipe.

Bread and Butter Pudding Recipe

Simple bread pudding is spiced with cinnamon and spiked with raisins.

Bread Pudding Recipe

This bread pudding is enriched with currants and cognac.

Bread Pudding with Orange Marmalade Recipe

Use up day-old bread in this tangy bread pudding with orange marmalade.

Brownie Recipes

It's hard to resist rich chocolate brownies. Within the brownie recipes you'll find not only basic chocolate brownies, but many variations. Try Chambord Brownie Bites, Double Chocolate Grand Marnier Brownies, Peanut Butter Macadamia Brownie Krispies, Triple Espresso Brownies, and many more.

Butterbeer Recipe

Harry Potter's butterbeer contains alcohol, but this dessert version is suitable for children and adults.

Buttermilk Sherbet Recipe

Buttermilk gives an added creamy tang to lemon sherbet sweetened with honey.

Butterscotch Nut Bars in a Jar Recipe

Delicious cookie bars with white chocolate chips and macadamia nuts make a great kitchen gift for any occasion.

Cake Mix Recipes

If you don't want to bother keeping standard dessert recipe ingredients on hand, get a head start by beginning with a cake mix. These recipes are all based on boxed cake mixes. Try such recipes as Cinnamon Raisin Cheesecake Puffs, Black Russian Cake, Fuzzy Navel Upsidedown Cake, Very Fat Fudge Cake, Turtle Cake, and more.

Cake Recipes

You'll find a variety of different cake recipes here, plus sub-categories broken down into cheesecakes, fruitcakes, and more. Try Apple Cake, Atkins Coconut Layer Cake, Black Russian Cake, Classic Yellow Cake, Dirt Cake, Blueberry Buckle Coffee Cake, Pineapple Upside-Down Cake, King Cake, Pound Cake, and many more.

Candied or Crystallized Flowers Recipe

Candied or Crystallized Flowers Recipe. Candied flowers make beautiful decorations for desserts and can last up to one year.

Candy Raisin Oatmeal Bars in a Jar Recipe

Delicious cookie bars with raisins, oatmeal, and chocolate candies make a great kitchen gift for any occasion.

Candy Recipes

Most of these candy recipes are easier than you might think. Wow your friends and family with such candy recipes as Bonbon Jovi, Apple-Cranberry Jelly Chews, Candied or Crystallized Flowers, Chocolate-Covered Dream Bites, Fudge, Chocolate Nut Butter Brickle, Whiskey Balls, Taffy, Marshmallows, Gumdrops, and many more.

Cantaloupe Sorbet Recipe

Fresh cantaloupe or muskmelon makes an easy and refreshing sorbet.

Cassata With Fresh Strawberry Puree Recipe

Cassata With Fresh Strawberry Puree Recipe. Fruit and nut meringue cake is topped with strawberry puree.

Cheesecake Recipes

Cheesecakes are not only luscious desserts. They can also be savory cakes used as an appetizer cracker spread for parties. This collection includes both sweet dessert cheesecakes, cheesecake bar cookies, and savory cheesecakes.

Cherries and Cream Rice Pudding Recipe

Cherries and Cream Rice Pudding Recipe. Rich and creamy rice pudding gets a kick of flavor and color from dried cherries.

Cherry Clafouti Recipe

Clafouti is a French fruit dessert with a batter topping. This recipe uses Bing cherries spiked with cherry brandy.

Cherry Sabayon Recipe

Orange-flavored custard tops tart cherries for an elegant but quick dessert.

Chestnut and Ricotta Semifreddo (Ice Cream) Recipe

Italian ice cream is enriched with ricotta cheese and chestnuts.

Chestnut Ravioli Recipe

Pastry pillows of chestnut puree, chocolate, rum, almonds, and candied fruit are deep-fried for an unusual dessert.

Chestnut Souffle with Brandy Custard Sauce Recipe Recipe

Individual chestnut souffles are topped with a rich brandy custard sauce for an elegant dessert.

Chewy Coconut Macadamia Bars Recipe

Coconut and macadamia nuts are a delicious combination in these easy shortbread bar cookies.

Chocolate Cashew Truffle Bars Recipe

Chocolate Cashew Truffle Bars Recipe. Cut these into 1-inch squares as they are quite rich and decadent. Feel free to substitute other nuts for the cashews.

Chocolate Fondue a la Chalet Suisse Recipe

This recipe is purportedly the original recipe for chocolate fondue.

Chocolate Hazelnut Tart Recipe

This delicious tart pie contains a rich custard base flavored with hazelnuts and chocolate.

Chocolate Mousse Bars Recipe

Chocolate Mousse Bars Recipe. Light but rich, these bars pack a big flavor punch so you can get away with cutting them into smaller bars than normal bar cookies.

Chocolate Nickel Bars Recipe

Chocolate Nickel Bars Recipe. They are called nickel bars because there is a combination of five different flavors in each bite. Simply irresistable.

Chocolate Orange Torte Recipe

Flourless chocolate cake is spiked with orange juice and orange liqueur. Good for Passover or any special occasion.

Chocolate Peanut Butter Crackle-top Minis Recipe

Chocolate Peanut Butter Crackle-top Minis Recipe. The peanut butter topping crackles to reveal dark chocolate base. Great for kids and bake sales.

Chocolate Peanut Butter Crisp Bars Recipe

Chocolate Peanut Butter Crisp Bars Recipe. This recipe uses a packaged brownie mix, peanut butter chips, and sweetened condensed milk. The secret crispy ingredient is potato chips in the frosting.

Chocolate Peanut Butter Marshmallow Bars Recipe

Chocolate Peanut Butter Marshmallow Bars Recipe. If you love fluffernutters, you'll love these. Using a cake mix and jarred marshmallow fluff makes these quick and easy to put together.

Chocolate Recipes

While chocolate is usually considered a dessert, you'll also find some savory recipes in this index. Although technically not chocolate, white chocolate recipes are also included here. This chocolate recipe index contains recipes using chocolate, chocolate chips, and cocoa.

Chocolate Rum Fondue Recipe

Dip fresh fruit or marshmallows into this easy but decadent chocolate rum fondue.

Chocolate Zucchini Roll Recipe

If you like zucchini bread, try this chocolate zucchini roll stuffed with cream cheese frosting.

Chocolate-0range Silk Mousse Recipe

Chocolate-0range Silk Mousse Recipe. No one will believe this rich mousse dessert is made with tofu. This quick and easy low-fat dessert is packed with chocolate flavor.

Cinnamon Applesauce Ornaments Recipe

Make wonderfully aromatic ornaments for Christmas or holidays using cinnamon, applesauce, gelatin, and cloves.

Cinnamon Applesauce Ornaments Recipe

Make wonderfully aromatic ornaments for Christmas or holidays using cinnamon and applesauce.

Cinnamon Raisin Cheesecake Puffs Recipe

A great sweet for finger-food parties or brunches. Start with refrigerated canned crescent rolls to whip these tasty gems up in a jiffy.

Cinnamon Raisin Nut Rolls Recipe

Cinnamon Raisin Nut Rolls Recipe. These are crispy, buttery, and sweet. A few simple ingredients whizzed in the food processor and rolled in buttered phyllo dough make a fast and easy baked dessert that will bring raves.

Classic Banana Pudding Recipe

Classic Banana Pudding Recipe. This classic banana pudding is fast, easy and will remind you of the good old days. Fresh bananas are layered with vanilla wafer cookies and a rich vanilla pudding for a no-bake dessert that will please all.

Cocoa Pumpkin Brownies Recipe

Try this delightfully different brownie recipe with pumpkin, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, cocoa, and chocolate chips.

Coffee Ice Cream with Espresso Brittle Swirl Recipe

Homemade coffee ice cream has flecks of espresso brittle swirled throughout.

Coffee Sour Cream Mold (Diet) Recipe

If you like coffee, try this low-fat dessert that is also low in calories.

Cookie Recipes

Cookies are the ultimate snack food. Try such cookie recipes as Amaretto Sours Cookies, Banana Chocolate Chip Cookies, Chewy Maple Cookies, Cocoa Sponge Cookies, Graham Crackers, Oatmeal Cookies, Shortbread Cookies, Pfeffernusse Cookies, Potato Chip Cookies, Sesame Seed Cookies, Molasses Cookies, and many more.

Country French Apple Crescent Casserole Recipe

Make this luscious apple crescent casserole as a breakfast or brunch treat, although it is good enough for dessert.

Cranberry Apple Dessert Risotto Recipe

Risotto becomes dessert with the aid of cranberries and apples.

Cranberry Cheesecake Bars Recipe

Cranberry Cheesecake Bars Recipe. Made with canned whole berry cranberry sauce, you can enjoy these moist bars year-round for breakfast, brunch, or dessert.

Creamy Butterscotch Fondue Recipe

Serve this butterscotch dessert fondue with fresh fruits, cookies, or sweet breads.

Creamy Pomegranate Parfait Recipe

Pomegranate, currants, almonds, papayas, and oranges shine in this easy fruit parfait.

Dalmatian Bars Recipe

Delicious bar cookies are named for dalmatian dogs because they use both chocolate and white chocolate.

Danish Fruit Pudding (Strawberry) Recipe

Fresh strawberries are used in this easy pudding which is finished with a topping of yogurt or sour cream.

Dessert Fondue Marnier Recipe

Dip fresh fruit or marshmallows into this orange marmalade and Grand Marnier creamy fondue.

Espresso Grand Marnier Balls Recipe

The rich flavor of espresso combines with orange liqueur, hazelnuts, and chocolate to make a fabulous truffle.

Fat-Free Caramel Sauce Recipe

This delicious fat-free caramel sauce uses non fat yogurt for a healthier dessert topping.

Figgy Pudding Recipe

As in the old Christmas song, figgy pudding is a spice cake made with figs and walnuts.

Fluffy Pumpkin Dip Recipe

Here is an interesting dessert dip that will delight adults and children alike. Serve with cookies or sliced fresh fruit as dippers.

French Honey Recipe - Heirloom Custard Lemon Curd Recipe

French Honey Recipe. This is an adaptation of an heirloom custard recipe from the 1800's. It's called French honey because it looks like creamed honey, but you might better know it as lemon curd.

Fresh Apple Raisin Bars Recipe

Fresh Apple Raisin Bars Recipe. Fresh apples and raisins make these lightly-spiced bars delightfully moist. The streusel topping is the icing on the cake, so to speak.

Fresh Berry Sauce with Grand Marnier Recipe

Fresh blueberries, strawberries, and/or raspberries combine with Grand Marnier to make a delicious dessert sauce.

Fresh Peach Dumplings Recipe

Fresh peaches are stuffed with a cinnamon crumble mixture, wrapped in puff pastry, and served with caramel sauce.

Frozen Jack O'Lanterns Recipe - Halloween Recipe

Fresh oranges are hollowed out and filled with chocolate ice cream and a cinnamon stick to resemble jack-o'-lanterns.

Frozen Maple Mousse Recipe

Rich and creamy mousse is sweetened with maple syrup.

Frozen Strawberry Cups (Diet) Recipe

Strawberries, pineapple, banana, and pecans liven up this frozen yogurt dessert that is low in calories and fat.

Gelatin Recipes

Most Americans know gelatin by the brand names Jell-O(r) and Knox, but there are other forms. Try such gelatin recipes as Hidden Treasure Strawberry Salad, Homemade Marshmallows, Peach Jelly Chews, Mock Sour Cream, Orange Fluff Salad, Watermelon Chiffon Pie, and more.

Ginger Chocolate Holiday Loaf Recipe

Tasty yeast loaves are flavored with molasses, chocolate, raisins, and ginger. Perfect for kitchen gifts.

Gingered Pumpkin Cheesecake Recipe

Crystallized ginger shines in this pumpkin cheesecake in a pecan gingersnap crust.

Gingered Rhubarb with Vanilla Ice Cream Recipe

Gingered rhubarb is quickly made in the microwave. Use as a topping for vanilla ice cream or as a compote.

Grand Marnier Custard Recipe

This classic French egg custard gets its flavor boost from Grand Marnier orange liqueur.

Grand Marnier Mousse Recipe

This quick dessert uses Grand Marnier for orange flavor and is then further enhanced by the strawberry sauce.

Hanukkah Bimuelos or Loukoumades (Fried Honey Puffs) Recipe

Fried honey puffs are a traditional Hanukkah food for Sephardic Jews but they are so good, you will want to make them year-round. This is a yeast bread, so plan ahead for rising time.

Hidden Treasure Strawberry Salad Recipe

Delicious and easy, this gelatin dessert include strawberries, pineapples, bananas, pecans, and sour cream.

Huckleberry Crisp Recipe

Enjoy fresh huckleberries in this traditional dessert with a sweet, crispy topping.

Hungarian Crepes with Hazelnuts Recipe

Classic Hungarian hazelnut crepes are lightened up in this version.

Ice Cream Recipes and Frozen Dessert Recipes

Not all of these will require an ice cream machine. Many can be frozen in a container in your freezer. You'll find ice cream recipes along with frozen yogurt, sherbet, sorbet, mousse, smoothies, ices, granitas, and more.

Ice Cream Social Peach Ice Cream Recipe

Use fresh peaches with vanilla and half and half to make this luscious homemade ice cream.

Impeached (Peach) Rice Pudding Recipe

Try this low-fat version of rice pudding flavored with peaches and raisins.

Irish Tea Brack Recipe

Simple bread pudding is spiced with cinnamon and spiked with raisins.

Key Lime Ice Cream Recipe

If you like key lime pie, you will love this easy custard-based ice cream.

Kiwifruit Cream Recipe

Kiwifruit cream is an egg-based custard pudding. It goes together quickly, but plan ahead to chill to set.

Kiwifruit Sorbet Recipe

You will not need an ice cream machine to make this easy kiwifruit sorbet at home.

Lemon Blueberry Sorbet Recipe

Lemon verbena enhances the lemon flavor of this blueberry sorbet. The rum is optional.

Lemon Loaf Frozen Dessert Recipe

Frozen lemon loaf is fast to prepare, but plan ahead to freeze it at least 3 hours before serving.

Lemon Peel Ricotta Creme Recipe - South Beach Diet Phase 1

Lemon Peel Ricotta Creme Recipe - South Beach Diet Phase 1. Fast and easy to make, this is sort of a pudding made with ricotta cheese, grated lemon peel, vanilla, and sugar substitute. Good for a snack or dessert for those following the South Beach Diet.

Lemon Thyme Sherbet Recipe

Lemon thyme sherbet is perfect for a light dessert or as a palate cleanser in between courses.

London Lennies English Christmas Rum Pudding Recipe

Christmas pudding is a traditional English favorite. This one is loaded with fruit, almonds, and spices. It gets its kick from rum.

Low Calorie Sparkling Mandarin Orange-Pineapple Mold Recipe

Easy gelatin mold is loaded with mandarin oranges and pineapples for a low-calorie treat.

Low-Fat Grand Marnier Ice Cream Recipe

This low-fat ice cream gets a kick from Grand Marnier liqueur and fresh oranges. Although it is very close to completely non-fat, you can't tell from the taste.

Lychee Sweet Cigars Recipe

Lychee Sweet Cigar Roll-ups Recipe. Egg roll wrappers are filled with a sweet mixture of lychees, walnuts, and coconut, then rolled into cigar shapes and fried.

Macadamia Nut Coconut Bars Recipe

Two-layer bar cookies have a brown sugar bottom with a coconut and macadamia nut topping.

Make Crystallized Ginger Recipe

Crystallized or candied ginger is very easy to make at home with these instructions. Use in desserts and confections.

Mandarin Lime Sorbet Recipe

Use canned Mandarin oranges for this quick and easy frozen delight.

Mandarin Orange Frozen Dessert Recipe

Delicious frozen no-bake dessert uses mandarin oranges, whipped topping, and pecans for an easy finish.

Mandarin Orange Rice Pudding Recipe

Let the crockpot do the work watching this delicious rice pudding flavored with mandarin oranges and raisins.

Mandarin Orange Sauce Recipe

Serve this easy mandarin orange sauce over ice cream, cakes, pancakes, or waffles.

Mango and Green Tea Sorbet Recipe

Combine the health benefits of green tea with the exotic sweetness of mangos and you have a tasty Weight Watchers recipe.

Maple Pecan Scones Recipe

Scones are called biscuits in America, and these are flavored with pecans and maple syrup. Be sure to start with cold butter.

Maple Pumpkin Ring Recipe

Maple syrup in the batter and in the glaze give this pumpkin ring a special flavor.

Maple Walnut Ice Cream Recipe

Easy and rich, this ice cream is loaded with walnuts and sweetened with natural maple sugar.

Marshmallows Recipe

Make your own marshmallows with this recipe from gourmet restaurant, The French Laundry.

Matzoh Pudding for Passover Recipe

Tasty matzoh pudding is filled with apples, raisins, nuts, and spices.

Mont Blanc (Chestnut Cream Meringues) Recipe

This French recipe piles chestnut puree on top of meringues and is finished with whipped cream for a classic dessert.

New York Super Fudge Chunk Ice Cream Recipe

Three kinds of chocolate and 3 kinds of nuts go into this wickedly indulgent ice cream from Ben and Jerry.

Nutmeg Ice Cream Recipe

Nutmeg is the primary flavoring ingredient in this smooth and creamy ice cream not to be missed.

Orange Crepes Flambe Recipe

Thin crepes are rolled, topped with orange marmalade syrup, then flamed with Grand MarnierA(r) orange liqueur.

Orange Marmalade Cream Cheese Bars Recipe

A bar cookie with a nutty shortbread crust and creamy citrus topping is sure to please all.

Orange Sorbetto Recipe

Simple Italian sorbet uses fresh oranges and is served in the orange rind for an impressive presentation.

Papaya Custard Recipe

Egg custard is lightly flavored with papaya and baked on top of a papaya base for a delicious dessert.

Papaya Ice Cream Recipe

Papaya and lime lend a tropical flavor to this rich ice cream.

Peach and Champagne Sorbet Recipe

Peach sorbet gets a festive edge by the addition of champagne.

Peach Buttermilk Ice Cream Recipe

Peach Buttermilk Ice Cream Recipe. Buttermilk gives a tangy richness to peach ice cream. Alternative freezing directions are given if you do not own an ice cream machine.

Peach Ice Cream, Philadelphia-Style Recipe

Unlike most ice cream recipes, this peach ice cream contains no eggs.

Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Cookie Bars Recipe

Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Cookie Bars Recipe. For peanut butter and chocolate lovers, you can't go wrong with these delicious cookie bars. Be sure to let the kids help.

Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Cookie Cups Recipe

Cranberry Cheesecake Bars Recipe. For peanut butter and chocolate lovers, you can't go wrong with these delicious cookie cups. Be sure to let the kids help.

Peanut Butter Chocolate Fondue Recipe

This fondue could not be easier to make. Serve with fruit, cake, and marshmallows as dippers.

Peanut Butter Cookie Bars Recipe

Peanut Butter Cookie Bars Recipe. A rich crunchy peanut butter cookie layer is topped with peanut butter-flavored chocolate and marshmallows. What's not to love?

Peanut Butter Mud Bars Recipe

Peanut Butter Mud Bars Recipe. With white chocolate, dark chocolate, peanut butter, and cashews, what's not to love? Fast and easy to make.

Peanut Butter Rollo(r) Cookie Cups Recipe

Peanut Butter Rollo(r) Cookie Cups Recipe. Little peanut butter cookie cups hold a hidden center of chocolate and caramel.

Pear, Thyme, and Rosemary Sorbet Recipe

Rosemary gives a hint of mint to homemade pear sorbet.

Pecan Sticky Buns Recipe

New York's Chelsea Market is famous for their pecan sticky buns. Now you can make your own at home.

Perfect Popcorn Balls Recipe

These popcorn balls are welcome treats on Halloween, for parties or just a snack.

Pineapple Banana Cheese Dessert Recipe

This tasty dessert is made with cottage cheese, pineapple, banana, and gelatin.

Pineapple Rum Flambe Recipe

Fast and easy pineapple rum flambe makes an elegant and light finish to a meal, yet it is quite simple to make.

Plum and Apricot Cobbler Recipe

This cobbler uses fresh apricots and plums with tapioca as a thickener. Goes together quick and easy.

Plum Pudding For Christmas Recipe

Julia Child shares this classic holiday pudding recipe, served flaming with a zabaione sauce.

Polenta Cobbler Recipe

Fresh nectarines, raspberries, and blueberries are topped with a polenta cobbler mix for a Southern touch.

Pomegranate Tapioca Recipe

Creamy tapioca is bursting with the healthy flavor of pomegranates.

Poppyseed Biscuits with Balsamic Strawberry Flambe Recipe

Strawberries are flamed with Kirschwasser, reduced and served over poppyseed biscuits.

Pudding Recipes and Custard Recipes

This recipe collection includes both savory and sweet puddings, custards, mousse and flans, as well as recipes that use pudding as an ingredient. Try such pudding recipes as Danish Fruit Pudding, Frozen Maple Mousse, Marlborough Pudding Pie, Papaya Custard, Pumpkin Fluff Dip, and more.

Pumpkin Creme Brulee Recipe

Classic creme brulee custard gets a light touch of pumpkin flavor in this recipe.

Pumpkin Pie Ice Cream Recipe

All of your favorite ingredients in pumpkin pie come together in this delicious ice cream.

Pumpkin Squares Recipe

Start with ice cream, flavor with canned pumpkin and spices, and layer with crushed ginger snaps for a unique frozen dessert.

Quick and Easy Frozen Yogurt Recipe

Frozen yogurt is flavored with fruit, vanilla, and spices. It is quick and easy to make.

Raspberry Lemon Loaf Recipe - Berry Maniloaf Recipe

Low-fat raspberry lemon loaf uses fresh or frozen raspberries so you can enjoy it year-round.

Rhubarb-Ginger Cobbler Recipe

Three forms of ginger plus rhubarb equals a dessert sure to wow your guests.

Ricotta Fritters Recipe

Scrumptious balls of fried sweet pastry are topped with powdered sugar. These are reminiscent of funnel cakes.

Ricotta-Brioche Bread Pudding Recipe

Egg brioche bread and ricotta cheese make a rich and delicious pudding. The variation adds prunes or figs for even more flavor.

Rose Hip Crumble Pie Recipe

Dried rose hips in a custard filling with a sweet crumble topping makes a fast and easy pie.

Rosemary Honey Ice Cream Recipe

The minty and woodsy flavor of rosemary shines in this easy ice cream sweetened with honey.

Russian Cream with Strawberries Romanoff Recipe

Strawberries are marinated in sweetened liquor to top a simple Russian cream pudding.

Saguaro Chocolate Pate Recipe

Saguaro Chocolate Pate Recipe. Like slices of truffles, this chocolate pate is decorated with cactus cut-outs of almond paste. Use different shapes for different occasions or holidays.

Sherry Chocolate Fondue Recipe

Dip fresh fruit or marshmallows into this chocolate fondue flavored with sherry.

Snicker Cookie Bars Recipe

Snicker Cookie Bars Recipe. Start with chocolate candies and cookie dough and end up with incredibly fast sweet treat.

Sorbet with Vodka Marinated Plums Recipe

Serve this fast dessert after a romantic meal. The plums are marinated for 20 minutes and served over sorbet.

Spiced Apple Napoleons with Pomegranate Caramel Sauce Recipe

Phyllo dough, apples, and pomegranate syrup are the main flavors of this impressive dessert.

Spiced Pumpkin Turnovers Recipe - Blatschindas Recipe

Pastries are filled with a spiced pumpkin mixture and baked.

Steamed Cranberry Pudding Recipe

Traditional cranberry pudding is flavored with spices and topped with cranberry glaze.

Strawberry Cream Recipe - Creme Aux Fraises Recipe

Simple but rich, this dessert is basically strawberry whipped cream.

Strawberry Flambe with Green Peppercorns Recipe

Green peppercorns and Grand Marnier give a slight peppery orange flavor to flamed strawberries.

Strawberry Grand Marnier Cheesecake Dip Recipe

Fruity and creamy cheesecake dip is flavored with Grand Marnier, strawberries, and walnuts.

Strawberry Mousse in Tulip Cups Recipe

Fresh tulip flowers make a stunning container for a light strawberry mousse, perfect for a party.

Strawberry Pretzel Dessert Recipe

Strawberry Pretzel Dessert Recipe. This pie has a pretzel crust and is filled with a fresh strawberry, whipped cream, and gelatin filling for a quick dessert.

Stuffed Brownie Bites Recipe

Stuffed Brownie Bites Recipe. As if brownie bites aren't decadent enough, these are stuffed with white chocolate chips. Semi-sweet chocolate chips perform a dual purpose as a filling and frosting.

Sugar-free Chocolate Fondue Recipe

Try this sugar-free version of chocolate fondue served with fruit slices as dippers.

Sugar-Free Chocolate Mousse - Low Carb Recipe

Sugar-Free Chocolate Mousse - Low Carb Recipe. These are crispy, buttery, and sweet. A few simple ingredients whizzed in the food processor and rolled in buttered phyllo dough makes a fast and easy baked dessert that will bring raves.

Super Fig Cobbler Recipe

Spiced fresh figs are topped with an intriguing cheddar cheese pastry for a sweet and sharp combination.

Sweet Potato Pecan Ice Cream Recipe

Sweet potatoes, pecans and condensed milk are the basis of this unusual ice cream dessert.

Sweet Ravioli Recipe

Raspberry-filled vanilla squares resemble Italian ravioli, but these are baked cookies, not pasta.

Sweet Ricotta and Mascarpone Mousse with Fresh Berries Recipe

Sweet, creamy cheese mousse is the perfect complement to fresh fruit.

Toffee Fondue Recipe

Caramel, coffee, and bittersweet chocolate lend richness to this decadent dessert fondue.

Triple Chocolate Cookie Bars Recipe

Triple Chocolate Cookie Bars Recipe. The texture of these cookie bars is somewhere between a soft, chewy cookie and a brownie. This decadent treat is fast and easy to make.

Very Cherry Crescent Ring Recipe

Start with refrigerated crescent rolls to make this delicious cherry and pecan pastry.

Watermelon Granita Recipe

Granita is like a grainy sorbet. This simple version made with fresh watermelon is refreshing and delicious.

Watermelon Pudding Recipe

Watermelon Pudding Recipe. Sweet and rosy cooked watermelon pudding is studded with chocolate chunks and pistachio nuts.

White Chocolate Blueberry Buckle Recipe

White Chocolate Blueberry Buckle Recipe. This version of blueberry buckle coffee cake is enriched with sour cream and white chocolate chips.

White Christmas Bars In A Jar Recipe

Delicious cookie bars with white chocolate chips and macadamia nuts make a great kitchen gift for any occasion.

Yin Yang Papaya Dessert Recipe

Coconut tapioca pudding shares a bowl with fresh papaya puree for a tasty and eye-appealing dessert.