When you think of dessert, cake probably first comes to mind. From simple and easy to expert and decadent, you'll find many cake recipes here from which to choose.

Acorn Squash Cake with Streusel Topping Recipe

Acorn squash fills in for pumpkin in this cake wiith a sweet streusel topping.

Apple Coffee Cake Recipe

Apple Coffee Cake Recipe. Delicious coffee cake goes together fast. Great for breakfast or dessert.

Apple Squares with Pecans Recipe

Apples and pecans are the stars of this delicious moist cake. The recipe makes enough for a crowd, so it is perfect for potluck dinners, parties, and family gatherings.

Applesauce Raisin Cake Recipe

Applesauce Raisin Cake Recipe. The applesauce makes it moist, the raisins provide flavorful bits of sweetness, and the cream cheese frosting lends a bit of decadence.

Apricot Cake Recipe

Fresh apricots shine in a deliciously light cake. This is a sheet cake, but you may also bake it as a layer cake.

Apricot Pecan Fruitcake Recipe

This fruitcake is for those who do not care for citron. It uses dried apricots, apricot preserves, pecans, and brandy.

Atkins Coconut Layer Cake Recipe

Low carb fans can enjoy this coconut cake without guilt.

Avocado Holiday Cake Recipe

Avocados are the good fat used in this unusual and tasty fruitcake for the holidays or any day.

Banana Cake with Cinnamon Glaze Recipe

Banana Cake with Cinnamon Glaze Recipe. Deliciously rich and moist devil's food cake is swirled with a vanilla cream cheesecake filling and chocolate chips galore.

Banana Nut Cheesecake Recipe

Easy cheesecake is bursting with the flavors of banana and walnuts.

Bananas and Cream Bundt Cake Recipe

Sour cream in this banana cake lends a slight tang as well as richness.

Black & White Chocolate Cake Recipe

Black & White Chocolate Cake Recipe. Start with a plain vanilla cake mix and end up with a luscious layered cake of vanilla and chocolate with white and dark chocolate chips.

Black Bottom Mini-Cupcakes Recipe

These mini-cupcakes are surprisingly light in spite of a rich cheesecake filling. Can also be made into regular cupcakes.

Black Devil's Food Cake Recipe - Low-Fat Chocolate Cake Recipe

Thanks to applesauce and fat-free buttermilk, this delicious chocolate cake is much lower in fat than traditional ones.

Black Russian Cake Recipe

This wickedly-good cake is flavored with chocolate and coffee liqueur and begins with a cake mix.

Blue Corn Cake Recipe

Blue cornmeal adds color, texture, and flavor to this interesting cake. Serve warm with ice cream or cold with whipped cream.

Blue Ribbon Cheesecake Recipe

This chef's cheesecake recipe has won many awards. It is topped with fresh strawberries.

Blueberries and Cream Cheesecake Recipe

Fresh-made blueberry puree is swirled into creamy cheesecake. It is easier than you may think.

Blueberry Cheesecake Bites Recipe

These little bites are moist and rich. The recipe makes a lot which is a good thing, since no one can eat just one.

Blueberry Couscous Cake Recipe

This simple dessert is made with fresh blueberries, vanilla, apple juice and couscous. It is fat-free and contains only natural fruit sugar.

Blueberry White Chocolate Coffeecake Recipe

Great for breakfast with coffee or as a dessert. Rich and simple to make.

Bread Pudding Coffee Cake Recipe

This bread pudding combination coffee cake with raisins and cinnamon is sure to please at breakfast or dessert.

Browned Butter Frosting Recipe

Old-fashioned frosting begins with browning the butter in a saucepan. Great on spice cake.

Buttercream Icing Recipe

This icing takes some time but is well worth the effort. Use wth Classic Yellow Cake.

Cakey Fruitcake Recipe

If you do not care for the traditional dense fruitcake, try this version which is more like a cake.

Carrot Cake with Marmalade Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe

Rich and moist carrot cake is topped with a marmalade cream cheese frosting.

Carrot Pudding Cake Recipe

When turned out of the pan, this bundt carrot pudding cake has a syrupy raisin topping.

Cherry Beer Cake Recipe

Cherry Beer Cake Recipe. The beer gives a rich flavor to the cherry cake.

Cherry Cream Coffee Cake Recipe - How to make coffee cake recipe

Easy coffee cake begins with crescent rolls and is filled with a cherry and pecan cheesecake filling.

Chestnut Ricotta Cheesecake Recipe

Dark rum and vanilla flavor this rich cheesecake filled with chestnut chunks.

Chocolate Amaretto Bundt Cake Recipe

This bundt cake is rich with the flavors of cocoa, amaretto, and buttermilk. It is topped with a sugar glaze and sliced almonds.

Chocolate Beet Cake Recipe

Chocolate Beet Cake Recipe. Don't be turned off by the beets! You won't taste them at all, and they make this decadent chocolate cake very moist.

Chocolate Chestnut Bourbon Torte with Kentucky Bourbon Cream Recipe

Luscious and rich bourbon torte is loaded with chocolate, chestnuts, and pecans.

Chocolate Chip Surprise Cake Recipe

Chocolate Chip Surprise Cake Recipe. The surprise is carmelized sweet onions. The gentle saute process carmelizes the onions, making them sweet. The cake has no onion flavor, yet is rich, dense and extremely moist.

Chocolate Cream Couscous Cake Recipe

Although this delicious cake is vegetarian, everyone will enjoy the rich chocolate flavor.

Chocolate Cream Swirl Cake Recipe

Chocolate Cream Swirl Cake Recipe. Deliciously rich and moist devil's food cake is swirled with a vanilla cream cheesecake filling and chocolate chips galore.

Chocolate Nut Banana Cream Cake Recipe

Delicious banana nut cake has chocolate chips and a thin cheesecake layer topped with a simple glaze.

Chocolate Porter Cake Recipe

Porter is a rich, dark beer. Its delicious malt flavor enhances the flavor of chocolate in this cake.

Chocolate Sour Cream Frosting Recipe

Coffee is used to intensify the flavor of chocolate in this rich and easy sour cream frosting.

Chocolate Turtle Cheesecake Recipe

Caramels, pecans, and chocolate shine in this rich, no-bake cheesecake.

Chocolate Yogurt Cake Recipe

Yogurt adds richness and moisture while its tang emphasizes the flavor of the cocoa in this easy cake.

Cinnamon Apple Apricot Cake for Passover Recipe

Made with matzoh meal, apples, apricots, cinnamon, vanilla, and walnuts, this cake is good for Passover or any occasion.

Cinnamon Raisin Cheesecake Puffs Recipe

A great sweet for finger-food parties or brunches. Start with refrigerated canned crescent rolls to whip these tasty gems up in a jiffy.

Classic Yellow Cake Recipe

Sour cream adds richness to classic yellow cake while whipped egg whites lighten it up.

Coca-Cola Chocolate Chip Cake Recipe

Coca-Cola Chocolate Chip Cake Recipe. This easy sheet cake is wonderfully decadent and rich. The cola enhances the flavor of the chocolate without adding cola flavor.

Coffee Butter Frosting Recipe

This coffee butter frosting goes with spiced coffee sponge cake, but feel free to use it with any other cake.

Coffee Cake Recipe

Potatoes make this cinnamon coffee cake surprisingly light, although it is dense and chewy. Also try the variations.

Cola Chocolate Chip Cake Recipe

The cola enhances the flavor of the chocolate in this decadent cake without adding cola flavor.

Copycat Twinkies Recipe

With a little patience and creativity, you can make a reasonable facsimile of those beloved Twinkies(r) at home.

Country Apple Coffee Cake Recipe

Start with refrigerated flaky biscuits, add apples, cinnamon, a touch of whiskey, and pecans for a quick and delicious coffee cake.

Cranberry Orange Pound Cake Recipe

Orange marmalade gives extra dimension to delicious cranberry pound cake enriched with sour cream.

Cranberry Orange Streusel Cake Recipe

A sweet walnut streusel mixture tops this easy and delicious fresh cranberry cake. The cake is easily frozen and reheated.

Cranberry Streusel Cake Recipe

Cranberry Streusel Cake Recipe. If need be, you can use frozen cranberries for this brightly-flavored cake. The streusel topping is added late in the baking process so it doesn't sink to the bottom.

Cream Cheese Mocha Cake Recipe

Cocoa and coffee give mocha flavor to cake studded with chocolate chips and topped witha rich and fluffy cream cheese frosting.

Creole Christmas Fruitcake with Whiskey Sauce Recipe

This festive Christmas fruitcake incorporates fruits, nuts, Grand Marnier and bourbon smothered in whiskey sauce from Creole chef Emeril Lagasse.

Dark Fruitcake Recipe

This fruitcake recipe is over 100 years old. It takes 2 days to make, and 3 weeks to ripen, but well worth the time.

Dirt Cake Recipe

The crushed chocolate cookies resemble soil, and the gummy worms peeking out from the soil in this dirt cake are irresistible to children.

Dr Pepper Texas Chocolate Cake Recipe

If you enjoy the popular soda, Dr Pepper, you will love this cake loaded with cocoa and chocolate.

Drunken Chocolate Cake Recipe

Rich chocolate rum cake is frosted with bittersweet chocolate glaze and topped with chantilly cream.

Dump Cake Recipe

Dump Cake Recipe. It's so incredibly easy that it's perfect for kids to make. No mixing involved.

Easy Black Forest Cake Recipe

Black Forest Cake Recipe. This easy Black Forest cake begins with a brownie mix and gets added chocolate chips, so be prepared for fudgy decadence. The sweet, yet tart flavor of the cherries blends perfectly with the richness of the chocolate.

Easy Mardi Gras King Cake Recipe

Fast and easy King Cake has a raisin, pecan, and cinnamon cream cheese filling. It is decorated with the traditional colored stripes for Mardi Gras.

Easy Mardi Gras King Cake Recipe - Step by Step Recipe

Easy Mardi Gras King Cake Recipe. Step by step recipe instructions with photos show you how.

Festive Fruitcakes Recipe

Traditional fruitcake is loaded with dried fruits and nuts, then soaked in liquor or liqueur.

Fig Raisin Spice Loaf Recipe

Fresh figs and raisins shine in this delicious spice cake made in a loaf pan.

Fresh Strawberry Sour Cream Shortcake Recipe

Quick and easy shortcake is topped with a fresh strawberry mixture and sweetened sour cream.

Fruit Cake Recipe

Unlike traditional fruitcakes, this one is not soaked in any type of alcohol.

Fruit Cake Recipe

This fruitcake is like mincemeat of old times. It includes not only fruit, but sausage.

Fruit Wedding Cake Recipe

Fruitcakes were often served in olden days at special ceremonies such as weddings.

Fruited 7-Up Cake Recipe

Fruited 7-Up(r) Cake Recipe. This lemon-lime pound cake was popular in the 60's and 70's. It's updated here with the addition of plumped dried mixed fruit and a delicious colorful lime glaze.

Fruited Cheese Coffee Cake Recipe

Use your favorite canned pie filling to flavor this coffee cake which also has a cream cheese layer. It is much better than the fruit cheese Danish you buy at the store.

Fuzzy Navel Upside-Down Cake Recipe

If you like fuzzy navel cocktails, you will love this cake made with peaches, cherries, and peach schnapps.

German Beer Coffee Cake Recipe

Filled with walnuts and dates, this spicy coffee cake gets its leavening from beer.

Ginger Mascarpone Icebox Cake Recipe

Ginger Mascarpone Icebox Cake Recipe. Plan ahead to make this cake in advance so it has time to chill overnight. Fresh fruit such as blueberries, mangos, or peaches give the cake crowning glory, but it's wonderful on its own.

Golden Saffron Cake Recipe

Saffron shines in this cake which is topped with pistachio nuts.

Grand Marnier Cheesecake Recipe

Grand Marnier(r) liqueur lends an orange flavor to this rich cheesecake made with ricotta cheese and raisins.

Grand Marnier Chocolate Cake with Shiny Icing Recipe

Rich bittersweet chocolate and orange Grand Marnier liqueur are a match made in heaven in this cake.

Grand Marnier Pound Cake Recipe

This rich pound cake, studded with chocolate, has Grand Marnier(r) orange liqueur in the batter and in the glaze.

Halvah Shortbread Recipe

Tahini or sesame seed paste is the basis for this tempting shortbread.

Harvey Wallbanger Cake Recipe

This easy recipe takes the potent flavors of the Harvey Wallbanger cocktail and puts them into a deliciously moist cake.

Healthy Mandarin Orange Cake Recipe

Fat and calories have been trimmed from this healthy Mandarin orange cake.

Heavenly Cheesecake Recipe

It is hard to believe this delicious cheesecake is actually low-fat.

Holiday Fruitcake Recipe

This mildly spicy fruitcake is loaded with currants, almonds, and candied citrus.

Honey Walnut Cake Recipe

Ground walnuts are the star of this easy 1-layer cake garnished with honeyed walnuts.

Kentucky Derby Mint Julep Cake Recipe

Kentucky Derby Mint Julep Cake Recipe. With all of the elements of a mint julep, this cake is perfect for Kentucky Derby Day or any occasion.

Key Lime Cheesecake Recipe

If you love key lime pie, prepare to swoon over this cheesecake.

Key Lime White Chocolate Cake Recipe

Key Lime White Chocolate Cake Recipe. Something magical happens when you combine the tart flavor of key lime with the delicate flavor of white chocolate. This key lime sheet cake lives up to expectations with the perfect mix of sweet and tart.

Kitchen Sink Cake Recipe

Kitchen Sink Cake Recipe. This delicious cake includes fruits, nuts, and vegetables all in one tasty package.

Kiwi Cheesecake Recipe

Kiwifruit is the focus of this unusual rich cheesecake with apricot preserves.

Lady Baltimore Cake Recipe

This is a deliciously light angel food cake topped with a frosting loaded with figs, raisins, and pecans.

Light Fruitcake Recipe

This fruitcake is filled with raisins, candied fruit, cherries, and nuts and then soaked in liquor as a preservative.

Litchi Cheesecake Flowers Recipe

Litchi Cheesecake Flowers Recipe. Pretty on the plate and delicious to the palate, these individual litchi fruit cheesecakes make a beautiful presentation for any occasion.

Malibu Rum Cake Recipe

This cake starts with a box mix and packaged pudding and is jazzed up with coconut rum.

Mandarin Orange Cheesecake Recipe

Use canned or fresh mandarin oranges for this rich cheesecake.

Maple Cheesecake Recipe

Easy cheesecake is rich with the flavor of maple syrup.

Mardi Gras King Cake Recipe

Mardi Gras King Cake Recipe. This colorful cake is popular for Mardi Gras celebrations. One lucky guest will find a hidden treasure in their slice, granting good luck.

Mini Chocolate Cherry Cheesecakes Recipe

Bite-sized chocolate cherry cheesecakes are perfect for parties and buffets. This recipe makes a lot, but they go fast.

Mini Fruitcakes with Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe

Mini fruitcakes are filled with pineapple, apricots, cranberries, and pecans. Perfect for gifts.

Mixed Fruit Vanilla Cake Recipe

Mixed Fruit Vanilla Cake Recipe. Instead of candied fruit, this fruitcake uses dried fruits, including cranberries, cherries, strawberries, and blueberries for a new taste in each bite. Fruited cream cheese frosting is the icing on the cake.

Mocha Cherry Cordial Minis Recipe

Kahlua and chocolate create a mocha flavored base for these sinfully delicious mini cherry cheesecake bites.

New York Style Cheesecake Recipe

New York City's delis are famous for their cheesecake, and this recipe takes the cake.

Old-Fashioned Fruitcakes Recipe

Old-fashioned fruitcake contains 9 different fruits, spices, and nuts, plus brandy for a moist and delicious cake.

Orange Date Cake Recipe

Buttermilk and orange glaze make this cake very moist and full of orange flavor.

Oreo Cake Recipe

Deliciously decadent Oreo cake is incredibly easy to make with a pumped up cake mix.

Original Plum Torte Recipe

Simplicity at its tastiest is this easy cake made with fresh plums.

Patriotic Cupcakes Recipe

Patriotic Cupcakes Recipe. These red, white, and blue cupcakes are decorated for the 4th of July, but you'll want to serve them year-round. Make the best of fresh blueberries in a tasty muffin topped with cream cheese frosting.

Pavlova Recipe - New Zealand Dessert Recipe

This is a traditional dessert in New Zealand. Children's birthday cakes are often pavlovas in New Zealand and may be decorated with candy.

Peach Pound Cake Recipe

Peach Pound Cake Recipe. This rich and moist pound cake is not for dieters. Feel free to substitute nectarines, or apricots for the peaches.

Peach Raisin Coffee Cake Recipe

Peach Raisin Coffee Cake Recipe. Don't let the long ingredient list intimidate you. This fruity coffee cake is fast and easy.

Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Cake Recipe

Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Cake Recipe. This cake is rich, moist, dense, and positively decadent.

Peanut Butter Chocolate Mini-Cheesecakes Recipe

Peanut Butter Chocolate Mini-Cheesecakes Recipe. With a chocolate cookie base, these bite-sized peanut butter and chocolate chip cheesecake miniature goodies make decadent bon-bons.

Pecan Date Loaf Cake Recipe

This loaf fruit cake is loaded with dates, pecans, and cherries.

Pineapple Inside-Out Cake Recipe

This pineapple cake us not upside-down. It is inside out. It starts with a cake mix for a fast and easy dessert.

Pineapple Upside-Down Cake Recipe

Classic pineapple upside-down cake is baked with the pineapple on the bottom and inverted so it becomes the top.

Pink Champagne Cake Recipe

This cake is a show-stopper! It is rich with champagne, marshmallows, and coconut.

Pomegranate Cake Recipe

Pomegranate juice is the main ingredient in this light cake.

Pomegranate Pound Cake Recipe

Classic pound cake gets a light makeover and a boost of flavor from pomegranate seeds.

Praline Pumpkin Cheesecake Recipe

Pralines are a Southern favorite. Add pecan pralines to pumpkin cheesecake and you have a truly special dessert.

President Harrison Molasses Cake Recipe

Rich and moist molasses cake was reportedly a favorite of President Harrison.

Pumpkin Cranberry Cake Recipe

Cranberries and canned pumpkin with a variety of spices make a fabulous cake.

Pumpkin Pie Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe

Pumpkin Pie Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe. It's everything you love about pumpkin pie all wrapped up in a cake. Raisins and nuts are optional.

Pumpkin Swirl Cheesecake Recipe

Pumpkin Swirl Cheesecake Recipe. Rich cheesecake has the spiced flavor of pumpkin pie.

Raspberry Chocolate Cake Recipe

Rich chocolate cake has layers of raspberry filling and a cocoa cream cheese frosting. Looks difficult, but quite easy to make.

Red Velvet Cake Recipe

This old-fashioned rich chocolate cake gets its muddy red color from food coloring.

Rhubarb Upside-Down Cake Recipe

Tangy rhubarb flavors this twist on upside-down cake. It is fast and easy because it begins with a cake mix.

Root Beer Cake Recipe

If you like the flavor of root beer soda, you will love this cake which is also studded with marshmallows.

Shoofly Cake Recipe

Shoofly Cake Recipe. This molasses and brown sugar cake is a Southern favorite.

Shortcut Turtle Cake Recipe

Take a shortcut by beginning with a box cake mix to make this decadent turtle cake.

Spiced Carrot Raisin Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe

Spiced Carrot Raisin Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe. This may well be the ultimate carrot cake. The secret is in the microplaned carrots, which give moisture and natural sugar to the cake, and the spices that tickle the taste buds.

Spiced Triple Chocolate Cake Recipe

Imagine a rich and luscious chocolate cake slightly reminiscent of gingerbread, and you will be drooling over this dessert. Chocolate cake with pudding and chocolate chips topped with a simple sweet glaze is sure to please any chocoholic. This is one of the most moist chocolate cakes you will ever try. It goes together fast since it begins with...

Spicy Halloween Ginger Cake Recipe

Scrumptious cake is not only loaded with ginger and other spices, but also apples, molasses, coffee, and chocolate.

Stacked Pineapple Upside-Down Cake Recipe

Traditional pineapple upside-down cake becomes a double treat in this stacked layer cake version.

Super-Moist Apple Cake Recipe

Try different types of fresh apples to vary the texture and flavor in this delicious and moist cake.

Sweet Potato Chocolate Nut Cake Recipe

Sweet Potato Chocolate Nut Cake Recipe. Rich and delicious spice cake pairs sweet potatoes with chocolate for an enticing dessert.

Toasted Coconut Macadamia Pound Cake Recipe

Toast the coconut and macadamia nuts yourself to add flavor and depth to this rum-glazed Bundt cake.

Tomato Upside-Down Spice Cake Recipe

Tomatoes, ginger, molasses and lots of spices combine to create a truly unique and flavorful cake.

Tutti Frutticake Recipe

If you're not a big fan of candied fruit or citron in fruitcakes, try this version using dried fruits and nuts.

Very Creamy Cheesecake Recipe - Low-Fat Cheesecake Recipe

You will not miss the fat whatsoever in this silky smooth and creamy low-fat cheesecake.

Very Fat Fudge Cake Recipe

This cake is extremely rich and moist, hence its name. You can also make mini-muffins from this recipe.

Watermelon Cake Recipe

Watermelon Cake Recipe. Make a big hit with both kids and adults by using watermelon in a bundt cake. It even looks like watermelon!

White Chocolate Key Lime Cheesecake Bites Recipe

These little cheesecake gems are rich and moist. They are loaded with white chocolate chips which go perfectly with key lime.

White Chocolate Orange Cake Recipe

White Chocolate Orange Cake Recipe. Full of flavor from fresh orange juice and zest, this cake is moist and rich.

Yam Streusel Coffee Cake Recipe

Yams, orange juice, and spices flavor this delicious cake topped with streusel.

Zucchini Yogurt Cake Recipe

Zucchini lends fiber and texture while yogurt adds subtle richness to this cake sweetened with honey and bananas.