Most people either love it or hate fruitcakes. Don't blame the fruitcake, blame the recipe! There are many different styles and recipes from which to choose, so give fruitcake another chance. These fruitcake recipes use traditional dried fruit and/or citron as well as fresh fruit.

Apricot Pecan Fruitcake Recipe

For those who do not care for citron, try this fruitcake. It uses dried apricots, apricot preserves, pecans, and brandy. Feel free to add raisins or other favorite dried fruits in place of part of the apricots. Enjoy this fruitcake year-round.

Avocado Holiday Cake Recipe

Avocados are the good fat used in this unusual and tasty fruitcake for the holidays or any day. May be made as a sheet cake or as loaves.

Cakey Fruitcake Recipe

If you do not care for the traditional dense fruitcake, try this version which is more like a cake. It is still loaded with luscious fruits and nuts and topped with a bourbon glaze.

Cassata Siciliana Canoli Cake Recipe

This richly decadent cake from Emeril Lagasse has it all, including Grand Marnier, rum, chocolate, espresso, ricotta cheese, pistachios, and dried fruits. This is the ultimate fruitcake.

Cassata With Fresh Strawberry Puree Recipe

This is not your basic fruitcake, although it is loaded with a variety of nuts along with dried and candied fruit. The base is a delicious whipped cream meringue infused with rum. It is a frozen dessert served with an easy strawberry puree. If you don't want to use rum, substitute 1 teaspoon of rum flavoring in 1/4 cup warm (not hot) water for each use.

Creole Christmas Fruitcake with Whiskey Sauce Recipe

This festive Christmas fruitcake incorporates fruits, nuts, Grand Marnier, and bourbon then smothered in whiskey sauce.

Dark Fruitcake Recipe

This fruitcake recipe is over 100 years old. It takes 2 days to make, and 3 weeks to ripen, but well worth the time investment. If properly stored, the cake can be made as much as two months before Christmas.

Dump Cake Recipe

This recipe is designed for kids to bake. It's incredibly easy with no mixing involved. Canned fruits are dumped into a baking pan, topped with cake mix, butter, and nuts, then baked. The result is something in between a cake and a cobbler, and amazingly delicious. Adults will also love this recipe.

Festive Fruitcakes Recipe

Traditional fruitcake is loaded with dried fruits and nuts, then soaked in liquor or liqueur. These go together quickly, but they do take a long time to bake, so plan ahead.

Fig Raisin Spice Loaf Recipe

Fresh figs and raisins shine in this delicious spice cake made in a loaf pan. You can also bake this in an 8- or 9-inch square pan or as muffins. Reduce the baking time accordingly.

Fruit Cake Recipe

Unlike traditional fruitcakes, this one is not soaked in any type of alcohol. However, feel free to sprinkle with rum or fruit liqueur, if you wish.

Fruit Cake Recipe

This fruitcakes is like mincemeat of old times. It includes not only fruit, but sausage.

Fruit Wedding Cake Recipe

Fruitcakes were often served in olden days at special ceremonies such as weddings. This one is loaded with traditional fruit. If you don't want the small kick of alcohol, you may substitute pure fruit juice. These take 3 hours or more to bake, so plan ahead.

Fruited 7-Up Cake Recipe

This lemon-lime pound cake made with 7-Up(r) soda was popular in the 60's and 70's. It's updated here with the addition of plumped dried mixed fruit and a delicious colorful lime glaze.

Holiday Fruitcake Recipe

This mildly spicy fruitcake is loaded with currants, almonds, and candied citrus. Serve it toasted with tea or just plain.

Kitchen Sink Cake Recipe

Or rather, everything but the kitchen sink would be a more appropriate title. This delicious cake includes fruits, nuts, and vegetables all in one tasty package. It is moist and dense thanks to the carrots, pineapple, bananas, and raisins. Even carrot cake haters love this version. This is the best fruitcake you'll ever eat.

Lady Baltimore Cake Recipe

This is a deliciously light angel food cake topped with a frosting loaded with figs, raisins, and pecans. The cake layers may be made 1 week in advance and kept wrapped well in plastic wrap and frozen.

Light Fruitcake Recipe

This fruitcake is filled with raisins, candied fruit, cherries, and nuts and then soaked in liquor-soaked cheesecloth as a preservative. If you cannot use liquor, you may use fruit juice.

London Lennies English Christmas Rum Pudding Recipe

Christmas pudding is a traditional English favorite. This fruitcake is loaded with fruit, almonds, and spices. It gets its kick from rum. The pudding is made 30 days in advance to give it time to ripen. Be sure to read the flambe tips before beginning.

Mini Fruitcakes with Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe

Mini fruitcakes are filled with pineapple, apricots, cranberries, and pecans and topped with luscious cream cheese frosting. Perfect for gifts.

Mixed Fruit Vanilla Cake Recipe

Technically, this is a fruitcake, but it's far from the traditional fruitcake. Instead of candied fruit, this one uses dried fruits, including cranberries, cherries, strawberries, and blueberries for a new taste in each bite. Fruited cream cheese frosting is the icing on the cake.

Old-Fashioned Fruitcakes Recipe

Old-fashioned fruitcake contains 9 different fruits, spices, and nuts, plus brandy for a moist and delicious cake. Plan ahead to soak the fruits in brandy overnight or all day.

Papaya Raisin Muffins or Bread Recipe

Papaya adds moisture and flavor to these easy spiced muffins that begin with a cake mix. The cream cheese frosting adds extra decadence, however you may simply sprinkle the muffins with powdered sugar or omit the topping completely. This same recipe may be used to make Papaya Raisin Quick Bread.

Pecan Date Loaf Cake Recipe

This loaf fruit cake is loaded with dates, pecans, and cherries. Plan ahead to allow for cooking time. As with most fruit cakes, this one takes a long time in a low oven.

Plum Pudding For Christmas Recipe

Julia Child shares this classic holiday pudding recipe (which has no plums!), served flaming with a zabaione sauce. It is loaded with raisins and spices. Be sure to read the flambe tips before beginning.

Tutti Frutticake Recipe

If you're not a big fan of candied fruit or citron in fruitcakes, try this version using dried fruits and nuts. You'll want to make this year-round. Because it is so dense, it has a long baking time, and you'll also need to plan ahead to soak the fruit.