Celebrate Father's Day with all of Dad's favorite foods. You may have a hard time dragging him away from the barbecue grill, but he is sure to find something yummy to distract him here.

Buffalo Wings, Hot Wings, and Chicken Wings

In days past, chicken wings used to be relegated to the soup pot, but that was before Buffalo Wings became the rage. Learn the history of this hot dish and how it has evolved into many new versions.

Crab Recipes and Cooking Tips

Take a look at crabs and learn to distinguish females from males, a Dungeness from a blue, and why some of those shells are soft, plus recipes.

Eat Your Beer! Cooking With Beer Recipes

With studies showing beer is actually healthy, why not eat your beer? Learn about cooking with beer, and try some of the many different recipes.

Filet Mignon / Beef Tenderloin Recipes and Cooking Tips

This beef cut can be quite expensive when dining out, but much more reasonable to make at home. Find out how to get the best price and how to prepare it.

Hot Dogs Recipes and Cooking Tips

Hot dogs, red hots, weiners, franks, no matter what you call them, you'll find history and recipes for a truly American food icon.

Lobster Recipes and Cooking Tips

Lobster was once so plentiful it was used as bait. It's a bit more costly today but easy to stretch if need be. Find out how to prepare delectable lobster dishes at home.

Sausage Recipes and Cooking Tips

Control the fat content by making your own sausage at home. The many homemade sausage recipes include traditional blends, low-fat, seafood and vegetarian varieties, plus recipes using sausage as an ingredient.

Shish Kebabs Recipes and Cooking Tips

Kebabs are versatile enough to serve to guests or family while pleasing vegetarians to meat-lovers.

Shrimply Delicious Shrimp Recipes and Cooking Tips

Shrimp is America's favorite shellfish. Learn how to choose shrimp, pick up some cooking tips and try some new recipes.

Spareribs Recipes and Cooking Tips

Barbecued spareribs are perhaps the favorite, but you don't necessarily have to own a grill to enjoy spareribs. Should you boil or not? Find out how to cook spareribs in the oven or outdoors.