You'll find information about Chinese soup here, including the difference between thick and thin soup and how the Chinese use soup to treat illness. Recipes include Egg Drop, Hot and Sour, and Salty Soybean Milk Soup.

Chinese Soup Recipes

Learn how to make popular soups such as Wonton and Hot and Sour Soup at home.

Chinese Soup Recipes

A Collection of Chinese soup recipes, from Hot and Sour to Egg Drop Soup

The ABC's of Chinese Soup

Chinese soup - Learn all about Chinese soup, including categories, the importance of the stock, and try out lots of recipes.

Healing Chinese Soup

Healing Soups - Learn about the holistic value of Chinese soups.

Bok Choy Chicken Soup

Bok choy chicken soup - This easy Chinese recipe allows you to get all the nutritional benefits of bok choy in a simple, flavorful soup. Feel free to increase the nutritional value by using homemade chicken broth, or adding cooked chicken.

Chicken and Spinach Soup

From Eastern China, this Chinese recipe for chicken and spinach soup is made with fresh spinach leaves and chicken breast.

Chicken Stock - Chinese Chicken Stock Recipe

A good stock recipe is very important in Chinese cooking. This recipe for Chinese Chicken Stock comes from Heart Smart Chinese Cooking, by Stephen Wong.

Chinese Noodles in Soup

Chinese Noodles in Soup - Noodles in soup are far more popular than fried noodles. This recipe comes from Chef Deh-ta Hsiung.

Cream Corn Soup Recipe - Chinese Cooking

Chicken adds extra protein to this version of cream corn soup, made with homemade chicken stock.

Dan's Special Shroomy Mushroom Soup - Quick and Easy Mushroom Soup

A quick and easy and nourishing soup for college and university students who want to eat healthy but don't have a lot of time to spend over a hot stove.

Double Chicken Stock

Chicken stock recipe - a strong flavored chicken stock recipe makes a good base for Won Ton soup or any other soups requiring chicken broth.

Egg Drop Soup

A recipe for Egg Drop soup (also known as egg flower soup), a popular dish in which beaten eggs are poured into the soup in a steady stream.

Egg Drop Soup With Tomato (Tomato Egg Drop Soup)

A bit of sugar balances tomato's acid taste in this recipe. At the end of the recipe you'll find a few common variations, such as adding peas.

Five Minute Cream Corn Soup

Canned creamed corn adds texture and flavor to chicken broth in this recipe which makes a quick lunch or a first course at dinner.

Four Ingredient Cream Corn Soup

A quick and easy version of this popular recipe, bringing together canned corn, chicken broth, green onion and salt for seasoning. Feel free to add a bit of soy sauce, or black or white pepper if desired.

Hot and Sour Soup

The perfect recipe for cold winter days, hot and sour soup made with pork and dried mushrooms.

Pho Ga - Vietnamese Chicken Noodle Soup

Not Your Grandma's Chicken Soup - this flavorful chicken noodle soup recipe from the Master Chef at L.A.'s Crustacean Restaurant contains flue fighting ingredients such as fresh ginger.

Red Bean Soup

This soup is a popular snack or can be served as a sweet dessert soup. Azuki beans are a "yang" or warming food. Tangerine peel is used in many recipes, and is thought to aid digestion.

Sizzling Rice Soup

A restaurant specialty, sizzling rice soup makes crackling sounds when crisp rice is added to the hot broth.

Salty Soybean Milk Soup

Made with sweet soybean milk, this northern Chinese dish is a popular item at street hawker stands.

Spinach Soup - Healthy Spinach Soup With Tofu Recipe

Spinach soup - Combining fresh spinach leaves with tofu makes a warming soup that is loaded with health benefits. Turn into a vegetarian recipe by using vegetable broth.

Chinese Tofu Shirataki Noodle Soup

What could be healthier than this chicken soup made with bok choy and gluten-free tofu shirataki noodles?

Sweet Corn Soup With Crabmeat

Sweet corn soup - the thick texture of this flavorful soup, made with crabmeat, makes it similar to a nourishing chowder without the milk. It reheats very nicely.

Tofu Soup - Tofu and Winter Vegetable Soup Recipe

Tofu Soup - According to Buddhist tradition, vegetables are eaten at the start of the lunar year to purify the body and bring good luck.

Watercress Soup With Seafood

Watercress Soup - This popular Chinese soup is loaded with nutritional benefits.

West Lake Beef Soup

This popular soup is really just a fancier version of Egg Drop Soup, with the addition of marinated ground beef and a slight variation in seasonings.

Winter Melon Soup

This popular soup, featuring the sweet taste of winter melon, is often served at Chinese banquets.

Won Ton Soup - Chinese Soup Recipes

The won tons floating in the soup resemble clouds, hence the name won ton, which means swallowing a cloud. This won ton soup recipe is seasoned with sesame oil and white pepper.