Recipes and informational articles about holidays, special occasions and parties, including Christmas, Thanksgiving, Easter, Halloween, Cooking For A Crowd, Gingerbread Houses, Hannukah, Tailgate Party, Superbowl, and much more.

Kitchen Gift Wish List - Favorite Kitchen Gadgets

Whether it's your birthday, anniversary, or the holidays, if you had the choice of any kitchen gadget or appliance, what would be at the top of your wish list?

10 Food Gift Packaging Tips for your Gifts from the Kitchen

10 Food Gift Packaging Tips for your Gifts from the Kitchen. Make your food gift look as scrumptious to the eye as to the palate with a pleasing presentation.

10 Food Gift Shipping and Mailing Tips

Whether you are sending your package a short distance or out of the country, here is some advice to help get your package and its yummy contents to the final destination the way it was intended.

10 No-Cook Food Gift Ideas

If you have no time to cook but still want to give a gift from the kitchen, check out these ideas good for all occasions.

5 Best Cookies for Mailing

5 Best Cookie Recipes for Mailing. Make sure your cookies reach their destination in one piece by first choosing a cookie recipe that will hold up to rough handling.

5 Best New Year's Eve Recipes

5 New Year's Eve Recipes. Whether you are planning a full meal or party finger foods, here are the most popular recipes for New Year's Eve.

Cinco de Mayo Foods and Recipes

Cinco de Mayo Recipes and Food. Try some traditional and updated Mexican recipes for Cinco de Mayo or any day.

Cooking for a Crowd Recipes and Information

Cooking for a crowd, with large quantity recipes to feed many guests for parties, potluck dinners, banquets, and more.

Cooking for a Crowd Tips and Recipes

Tips on cooking for a crowd, with large quantity recipes to feed many guests for parties, potluck dinners, banquets, and more.

Easy Mardi Gras King Cake Recipe

Fast and easy King Cake has a raisin, pecan, and cinnamon cream cheese filling. It is decorated with the traditional colored stripes for Mardi Gras.

Father's Day Recipes

Celebrate Father's Day with all of Dad's favorite foods such as beer, hot wings, hot dogs, sausage, lobster, crab, shrimp, spareribs, and more. Don't miss the Beer Can Chicken!

Flambe

As extravagant as flambe dishes appear, they are easy enough to make at home and far less expensive. Impress your family and guests for any special occasion with a variety of flambe recipes from salads to desserts.

Foods of Love - Food as Aphrodisiacs

Foods of Love - Food as Aphrodisiacs. Learn about common foods considered to be aphrodisiacs.

Fourth of July Recipes - Red, White, and Blue Recipes

Red, white and blue recipes for your July 4th celebration. Celebrate Fourth of July or any day with this collection of colorful recipes.

Holiday Gifts from the Kitchen

Great food gifts from your kitchen for any time of the year, plus wrapping and shipping tips.

Kentucky Derby Mint Julep Cake Recipe

Kentucky Derby Mint Julep Cake Recipe. With all of the elements of a mint julep, this cake is perfect for Kentucky Derby Day or any occasion.

Kids Cook for Mother's Day - Recipes

Kids Cook Mother's Day Recipes. Easy recipes for junior chefs to cook up a special Mother's Day meal for Mom.

Kids Cook for Mother's Day

Move over mom! Let the kids take over the kitchen for Mother's Day with these easy recipes and helpful cooking tips.

Labor Day Recipes

Celebrate Labor Day with barbecue, hot dogs, Buffalo wings, shish kebabs, cool salads, easy desserts, and more.

Mardi Gras Recipes

New Orleans is famous for Cajun and Creole foods, so it's no wonder that those who celebrate Mardi Gras concentrate on these foods for their Fat Tuesday parties. What's the difference between Cajun and Creole foods? Find out and make a King Cake for your Mardi Gras celebration.

Setting the mood for a romantic dinner - Foods of Love

Setting the mood for a romantic dinner - Foods of Love. How to set up a romantic dinner for your loved one.

Tailgate Party Tips and Recipes

Celebrate your favorite sport or activity with a tailgate party at the stadium or have one at home with these recipes.

Tailgate Party

These tips and recipes are not only good for tailgate parties, but for any outing or even a party in the back yard. Good finger food recipes.