Chicken Soup

 Is there any truth behind the nickname "Jewish penicillin"? You bet! Find out how this comfort food really can help when you are ill. Don't limit yourself to the old standard recipe, try one of the many variations.

Couscous

 Couscous is finding its way back into the worldwide mainstream. It's quick and easy to make and can be flavored by nearly any fruit, vegetable, meat, seafood, herb or spice you can imagine. Learn more about this tasty food and try some interesting old and new couscous recipes.

Comfort Foods

 For most of us, comfort foods are far from gourmet and generally epitomize home cooking. They invoke feelings of nostalgia, safety, and security. Check out the top 25 comfort foods and recipes.

Edible Flowers

 Make your food not only taste good, but also look pretty with recipes using edible flowers.

Flambe

 The flamb&eacute technique is often employed tableside at expensive restaurants for a dramatic touch. As extravagant as flamb&eacute dishes appear, they are easy enough to make at home and far less expensive. Impress your family and guests with a variety of flambe recipes from salads to desserts.

Fondue

 Fondue is back and more popular than ever! Dig out that fondue pot and try some new recipes.

Frozen Delights

 Ice cream, frozen yogurt, sorbet, sherbets, ices, and more. Homemade decadent and healthy frozen delights are good year 'round.

Fruitcakes

 Most people either love or hate fruitcake. Don't blame the poor fruitcake, blame the recipe! Learn how to lighten up that doorstop and try new variations.

Gelatin

 Yes, most gelatin is a meat by-product, but there are alternatives...and it's not just for dessert!

Gingerbread Houses

 Not just for holidays, make a gingerbread house for any special occasion. Recipes, tips, and decorating ideas for making your own gingerbread house.

Gravy

 With a little insight on methods and a few tricks of the trade, you will find making the perfect gravy a snap!

Greek Olympic Recipes - Historic Greek Foods

 The first Olympic athletes were Greek, of course, but many classic Greek foods have made their way into the new world. Celebrate the origin of the Olympics with recipes based on historical Greek ingredients.

Homemade Sausage

 Control the fat content by making your own sausage at home. The many recipes include traditional blends, low-fat, seafood and vegetarian varieties.

Hot Dogs!

 Hot dogs, red hots, weiners, franks, no matter what you call them, history and recipes for a truly American food icon.

Irish Stew

 This peasant dish is still popular whether you like the bare bones basic version or one of today's gourmet variations.

Jerky

 Don't spend money on commercial jerky full of preservatives. Jerky is easy to make at home and you can control what goes into it. You'll find recipes for beef, venison, and even tofu jerky.

Lunchbox Goodies

 No more boring lunches! Liven up those back-to-school lunches with tips, info and recipes.

Marinades

 Marinades can tenderize as well as enhance the flavors of foods. Learn the science behind the tenderizing and take advantage of hundreds of recipes.

Marmalades

 Marmalades usually begin with a citrus base, but many fruits can be added to pique the palate. Learn how to make homemade marmalade and how to use it in recipes. Perfect for kitchen gifts.

Matzo Ball Savvy

 Matzo ball soup is a comfort soup for many folks. You'll find both Sephardic and Ashkenazic versions of the recipes to please all.

Meatloaf Magic

 Tips and hints on making the perfect meatloaf, from gourmet to meatless to like Mom used to make.

Omelets & Frittatas

 You may consider omelets a breakfast dish, but please do not restrict this hearty dish to the morning hours. Find out the difference between omelets and frittatas, and try one of the many recipes.

Pate

 Pate is not limited to liver or even poultry. You can create impressive pate from meat, seafood, and vegetables. Most are very simple to prepare. Try some new recipes for the ultimate appetizer.

Pizza

 Don't relegate pizza to simply a desperation meal. Make your own pizzas at home and let the kids help with many interesting recipes.

Puff Pastry

 A simple component such as puff pastry can turn an ordinary dish into a show-stopping centerpiece. Today's home cook has the benefit of frozen puff pastry. Just thaw and go! Puff pastry is great with savory foods as well as desserts.

Shish Kebabs

 Kebabs are versatile enough to serve to guests or family while pleasing vegetarians to meat-lovers.

Soup For All Seasons

 Cold weather? Hot weather? Soups and stews can warm you or cool you off. Don't miss these recipes.

Stuffings / Dressings

 Stuffing is not just for holidays and not just for poultry. Preparation tips and many recipes.

Summer Foods

 It's summer. It's hot. Who wants to spend a lot of time in the kitchen when you can be outdoors celebrating the warm months with friends and family? Find out how to cook up a great meal while keeping cool.

Traditional Irish Stew

 This peasant dish is still popular whether you like the bare bones basic version or one of today's gourmet variations.

Turkey Leftovers

 I've gathered some unconventional recipes to help you use up those turkey leftovers, along with Hotline numbers, info and tips.