A selection of hand-picked cookbooks, many with detailed reviews by your Guide.

Olive and Olive Oil Cookbooks

Top 5 Olive and Olive Oil Cookbooks for Home Cooking. If you have an olive tree or just love olives, these books will help you cook up some great olive recipes.

Cooking with the Firehouse Chef

Cooking in a firehouse is like cooking for family, so you'll find these recipes use easy-to-find ingredients in a wide spectrum of dishes. With semi-gourmet offerings such as Steak au Poivre with Mushroom Green Peppercorn Dijon Sauce to homey favorites like Grandma's Quick and Easy Pot Roast, you're sure to find something to please all palates. And yes, there are two chili recipes.

The Ultimate Potato Book

At first blush, one might think this was just another "potatoes for dummies" type of cookbook. Yes, there are a few standard potato recipes such as Potato Skins, Hash, and Twice-Baked Potatoes, but the vast majority of the recipes go where no potato has gone before and even the ones you might think common are not so common.

125 Best Cheesecake Recipes

With easy-to-follow instructions, sidebars with comments, tips, and variations, and color photographs to make you want to lick the page, this cookbook is sure to delight any cheesecake-lover from novice to seasoned cook. It's easy to make the perfect cheesecake. Really.

Semi-Homemade Cooking

The subtitle, "Quick Marvelous Meals and Nothing Is Made from Scratch," gives a clue to the recipes in this cookbook. Use ready-made products to enhance fresh ones to create quick meals at home.

Food Festival, U.S.A.

This book offers 250 red, white, and blue ribbon winners from festivals around the country. Since most of these recipes come from home cooks, you won't be faced with the problem of exotic, hard-to-find ingredients and pages of time-consuming instructions. Yet there are still many recipes that some may consider gourmet.

Beer-Can Chicken

This entertaining and informative cookbook delves into America's newest passion: cooking a whole chicken upright on the base of a beer can filled with beer or any variety of liquids for flavoring. Also included are other offbeat recipes for the grill, and most can be converted to the indoor oven.

The Wild Vegetarian Cookbook

"Wildman" Steve Brill has been conducting foraging tours searching out wild edible plants in New York City for more than twenty years. This book brings his knowledge of wild edibles and natural foods to the table, showcasing more than 500 vegan recipes.

Emeril's There's A Chef In My Soup!

Emeril kicks it up a notch for the kids in his first children's cookbook. Over 75 traditional children's favorite recipes are updated with added ingredients to enhance flavor without being too spicy. Basic cooking and safety instructions are also included.

Kitchen Confidential - Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly

For those with a sense of humor and a strong stomach, particularly anyone who has worked at even the lowliest task in any type of eating establishment, be prepared to nod, wink and laugh out loud at the down-and-dirty truths contained within these pages.

Dinners in a Dish or a Dash

This book revisits a popular Ladies Home Journal feature, "Shelf Magic," but updates the concept to take advantage of today's fresher market offerings. Some canned foods are still included in the 275 recipes, but now the emphasis is on fresh, frozen and deli ingredients.

Crazy Plates: Low-Fat Food So Good, You'll Swear It's Bad For You!

by Janet & Greta Podleski 

 This humorous yet healthy book has low-fat recipes with clever names to help you fool your family into eating nutritious food that actually tastes good. Anyone for some Nouveau Quiche or Forrest Gumbo? Softcover.

Great Adventures In Food

by Ellen Haas 

 Nutritional, healthy family meals are the focus of this book. The informational charts, tips, and hints are the perfect accompaniment to the recipes which focus on fresh foods. Hardcover. Your Guide's Review

Food Lover's Tiptionary

The Food Lover's Tiptionary is not a guide to tipping waitstaff, but a collection of over 4,500 tips, secrets, shortcuts and other information all compiled in one handy culinary guide.

InterCourses: An Aphrodisiac Cookbook

Sexy as well as functional, this book brings sex to the kitchen in a classy, entertaining manner with not only more than 85 recipes, but also a collection of sensual food art.

Family Circle All-Time Favorite Recipes

by Dianne Onstad 

 The ever-popular women's magazine has compiled 600 readers' favorites into one volume. Color photos help you visualize to plan your menu. Plus entertaining planning and tips. Hardcover.

Whole Foods Companion

This 513-page compendium of reference material of food historical facts, botanical name origins, and lore, also includes nutritional and holistic health information.

How To Repair Food

All you need to know to fix those flopped recipes, plus food storage information, fruit and vegetable seasonability chart, weights and measures, stain removal tips, and more.

The Perfect Recipe : Getting It Right Every Time

Bridge the gap between weighty cooking manual and gourmet mumbo-jumbo, you'll find all your cooking basics needs explained, with 180 recipes for basic comfort foods.

Make-A-Mix

by Karine Eliason, Nevada Harward & Madelin Westover 

 67 do-it-yourself mixes and 306 recipes for using those mixes, plus hints, tips and money-saving ideas. Softcover.

Jack Daniel's Spirit of Tennessee Cookbook

by Lynne Tolley and Pat Mitchamore 

 Over 350 easy-to-prepare Southern favorites plus history and photographs from the heart of Tennessee whiskey country. Hardcover.

What's Cooking America

by Linda Stradley & Andra Cook 

 A wonderful collection of over 800 recipes blending comfort foods with new twists on the old standards, and spiced throughout with food facts, history, and tips. Paperback.

The Science Chef : 100 Fun Food Experiments and Recipes for Kids

by Joan D'Amico, Karen Eich Drummond 

 Food experiments and recipes demonstrate kitchen science to kids, plus teaches basic culinary skills. Paperback.

The 2-Ingredient Cookbook : The Easy Way to Make Delicious Meals Fast!

by Adeline Rosemire 

 The 2-Ingredient Cook Book contains over 275 fast and delicious recipes for people who don't want to spend a lot of time in the kitchen. Paperback.

All Around the World Cookbook

by Sheila Lukins 

 Covering 33 countries on a cook's tour of cuisines, ingredients and tastes; 450 dazzling, original recipes; 2-color photos and illustrations. Paperback.

The Black Family Reunion Cookbook : Recipes & Food Memories from the ...

by National Council of Negro Women 

 This book reflects the local, national, and international heritage of the African American community. Paperback.

Chicken Soup for the Soul Cookbook

by Jack Canfield (Editor), Mark Hansen, Diana Wentworth 

 A joyful collection of stories accompanied by mouthwatering recipes by the best-selling authors of those hope-evincing stories. Paperback.

Claire's Corner Copia Cookbook

by Claire Criscuolo 

 Claire's new cookbook enables cooks to re-create the same rich-tasting, low-fat, meatless meals in their own kitchens as in her popular restaurant. Paperback.

Culinary Arts Institute Encyclopedic Cookbook

by Ruth Berolzheimer 

 Basic to the gourmet, preparation to serving, it's all here, plus 10,000 different recipes and countless food facts and ideas. Paperback.

Dr. Atkins' New Diet Cookbook

by Robert C. Atkins, Fran Gare 

 Contains over 200 of the most-asked-for recipes at the Atkins Center. The variety of choices is immense, and dieters never feel deprived as the pounds melt away. Paperback.

The Encyclopedia of Herbs, Spices, & Flavorings

by Elisabeth Lambert Ortiz 

 Spectacular! More than 200 herbs, spices, essences, edible flowers and leaves, aromatics, vinegars, oils, teas and coffees. 185 recipes. 750 full-color photographs. Hardback.

Farmhouse Cookbook

by Susan Herrmann Loomis, Ken Jacobson (Illustrator) 

 A two-year, 20,000-mile odyssey through the small farms, ranches, dairies, vineyards, and orchards of America covers 300 mouth-watering recipes. Hardback.

Faye Levy's International Jewish Cookbook

by Faye Levy 

 Personal anecdotes, cultural insights, and historic lore, this collection of tantalizing recipes is a celebration of the diversity of the rich Jewish culinary heritage. Paperback.

Julia & Jacques: Cooking at Home

by Jacques Pepin and Julia Child 

 Bursting with fresh ideas, proving again and again that cooking is endlessly fascinating and ultimately personal, this is the companion to the new 22-part PBS television series. Hardcover.

The Kids' Multicultural Cookbook

by Deanna F. Cook, Michael P. Kline (Illustrator) 

 Kids whip up 50 great multicultural dishes and also meet real children from Asia, Europe, and Africa. Recipes, illustrations, photos. Paperback.

The King Arthur Flour 200th Anniversary Cookbook

by Brinna Sands 

 Here's a scrumptious collection of over 500 clearly-written recipes from this flour manufacturing giant. An entertaining baker's dream of a cookbook. Paperback.

The Moosewood Cookbook

by Mollie Katzen 

 Lighter and healthier recipes in direct response to readers from this restaurant famous for vegetable dishes. Illustrated. Paperback.

Native Indian Wild Game, Fish & Wild Foods Cookbook

by David Hunt 

 Over 340 Native American recipes for wild edibles, fruits, fish and seafood, venison, small and big game, plus tips and cultural facts. Paperback.

The New Basics Cookbook

by Sheila Lukins, Julee Rosso 

 Over 30 chapters include 875 recipes, techniques, charts and tips, microwave miracles, and illustrations. Illustrations throughout. Paperback.

Nicole Routhier's Fruit Cookbook

by Nicole Routhier, Carolyn Vibbert (Illustrator) 

 Routhier combines her passion for fruit with her culinary gifts to create 400 recipes of fruit magic. Paperback.

The Seafood Cookbook

by Pierre Franey, Bryan Miller 

 A unique, essential fish cookbook that combines classic techniques, modern trends, and convenience. Illustrated. Hardcover.

Vegetarian Times Complete Cookbook

by Editors of Vegetarian Times (Editor) 

 A collection of over 750 recipes including vegetarian classics, meatless variations of American favorites, flavorful international dishes, all-natural desserts, and more. Hardcover.

Weight Watchers New 365 Day Menu Cookbook

by Published by MacMillan 

 General Reference Each recipe comes with complete nutritional counts and Weight Watchers Selection Information for easy record-keeping. 32 color photos. Hardcover.