Condiments and sauces give extra kick to your recipes and many can successfully be made at home. Learn how to make and cook with such condiments as ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, balsamic vinegar, chutney, honey, marinades, mayonnaise, mustard, and more.

False Caper Warning and Caper Cooking Tips

Make sure you do not have poisonous capers. Learn more tips and hints for cooking with capers.

Mayonnaise Tips and Hints

Tips and hints on making and using mayonnaise.

Mayonnaise Spoilage Myths - Mayonnaise Safety

Debunking the mayonnaise spoilage myths. Mayo is safer than you think.

What is Mayonnaise?

Find out exactly what mayonnaise is made of, how law regulates it, and how to make your own.

Ketchup / Catsup Storage and Fun Facts

Find out how to properly store ketchup, plus interesting fun ketchup facts and tips.

Ketchup / Catsup History

Original ketchup is Chinese in origin and had no tomatoes. Learn about the history of ketchup and catsup.

About Balsamic Vinegar

What is balsamic vinegar? It is not a wine vinegar. Learn about the history and making of balsamic vinegar

Balsamic Vinegar Age and Price

The youngest balsamic vinegar tradizionale is aged 12 years. Learn more about the age and price of balsamic vinegar.

Balsamic Vinegar Tips

Heat mellows the flavor of balsamic vinegar. Learn more tips and hints for cooking with balsamic vinegar.

Anchovies Recipes and Cooking Information

Many, many recipes use anchovies for a punch of flavor where the anchovies are neither recognizable visually nor by the taste buds. Anchovies are often that secret ingredient that you just can't put your finger on.

Balsamic Vinegar Recipes and Cooking Information

Balsamic vinegar has become all the rage in America, thanks to creative chefs at upscale restaurants. Although the good stuff is expensive, there are alternatives for the home cook. A little goes a long way so it's easy to stretch your investment.

Capers Recipes and Cooking Information

Capers have long been a favorite in the Mediterranean region. The small, green herb buds lend a piquant sour and salty flavor to salads, dressings, sauces, vegetables and a variety of main dishes.

Chutney Recipes and Cooking Information

Most chutneys are on the spicy-hot side, but it's easy to adjust the heat factor if you make your own.

Edible Flowers Recipes and Cooking Information

Make your food not only taste good, but also look pretty with recipes using edible flowers.

Honey Recipes and Cooking Information

An organic, natural sugar alternative with no additives, easy on the stomach, adapts to all cooking processes, and has an indefinite shelf-life? Here's a Honey of an answer for you! But it's not for babies. Find out why.

Ketchup and Catsup Recipes and Cooking Information

Learn the history and health benefits of America's favorite condiment. Not all ketchups contain tomatoes. Learn how to make your own catsup and ketchup at home.

Maple Syrup Recipes and Cooking Information

All about maple syrup, plus recipes for using it and how to make your own at home.

Marinade Recipes and Cooking Information

Marinades can tenderize as well as enhance the flavors of foods. Learn the science behind the tenderizing and take advantage of many recipes to stimulate your creative juices.

Mayonnaise Recipes and Cooking Information

Homemade mayonnaise is far superior in flavor to commercial mayo and can be made in a matter of minutes. Find out how to make your own or perk up commercial mayo with a variety of flavors.

Mustard Seed Types

Mustard Seed Types - Black, brown, and white mustard seeds are the three varieties most used for cooking.

Mustard Substitutions Cooking Tips

Mustard Substitutions Cooking Tips. Learn how to cook with mustard and make substitutions.

Mustard Varieties

Mustard Varieties - Learn about different varieties of mustard, including Dijon, English, German, and more.

Olive and Olive Oil Recipes and Cooking Information

Many recipes use a drizzle of olive oil or a handful of olives as a condiment. Get up to date on the intriguing origins of this ancient fruit, plus recipes for brining your own olives at home as well as recipes using olives and olive oil.

Sun-Dried Tomatoes Recipes and Cooking Information

Normally, the thought of dried food does not bring to mind a gourmet meal. However, a relatively small amount of sun-dried tomatoes gives a gourmet touch and a burst of flavor to a variety of recipes.