Herb recipes and cooking information. Herbs not only give flavor and spark to our foods, many also have medicinal qualities. Learn about the history of herbs, selection, storage, and usage with many recipes.

A to Z Recipes and Food

All recipes and articles listed alphabetically to make your search easier when looking for a specific food, recipe, or cooking method. Simply click on the letter of your search term at the top of the page to find the listings.

Herb Substitution Chart

This chart will help you find suitable substitutions for a variety of herbs.

Basil Recipes and Cooking Information

Basil is one of the most widely-used herbs in the world. From pesto to spaghetti sauce to dessert treats, basil runs the gamut in the kitchen.

Capers Recipes and Cooking Information

Capers have long been a favorite in the Mediterranean region. The small, green herb buds lend a piquant sour and salty flavor to salads, dressings, sauces, vegetables and a variety of main dishes.

Cilantro / Coriander Recipes and Cooking Instructions

Cilantro is one of those herbs you either love or hate. Coriander is the seeds of the cilantro plant which taste completely different than the herb. Confusion arises about cilantro, however, because it is called by different names in different areas. One thing is certain, you do not want to confuse cilantro with parsley! Learn about cilantro, how to store it, and get some cooking tips.

Dill Weed and Dill Seed Recipes and Cooking Information

Dill weed dates back 3,000 years and has long been used in homeopathic remedies for hiccups and gastrinal distress. Dill is a flavorful addition to seafood, dips, salads, dressings, vegetables, and more.

Edible Flowers Recipes and Cooking Information

Make your food not only taste good, but also look pretty with recipes using edible flowers.

Edible Flowers Chart

Before cooking up any recipes using edible flowers, make sure they are indeed edible. This chart gives a listing of common edible flowers, links to photographs, and taste descriptions.

Herb and Spice Chart

What herbs and spices go with specific foods? Here's a quick reference chart to help you choose herbs and spices for specific dishes.

Herb Pantry Basics

If you are just setting up house, you'll need to keep some basic herbs and spices on hand to be prepared for any recipe. You'll also find links to other pantry basics such as condiments, various food staples, and refrigerator/freezer items to keep stocked in your kitchen.

Mustard and Mustard Seed Recipes and Cooking Information

Most of us are used to standard yellow prepared mustard, but there are many wonderful varieties of seeds and prepared mustards to experiment with. Mustard is the second most-used spice in the USA. Find out why and how to make your own at home.

Oregano Recipes and Cooking Information

Oregano became popular in the US due to servicemen returning from World War II demanding pizza, yet it has always been popular in the Mediterranean. Learn the difference between common oregano and it's Spanish, Greek and Mexican counterparts and try some recipes.

Poisonous Flowers Chart

This chart gives botanical and common names of poisonous flowers. Do not make the mistake of attempting to cook or garnish your food with these flowers.

Rosemary Recipes and Cooking Information

Rosemary is a versatile, aromatic herb used in a wide variety of dishes, including fruit salads, soups, vegetables, meats (especially lamb), fish, eggs, stuffings, dressings and even desserts.

Sage Recipes and Cooking Information

Once prized for its medicinal value, the most popular use of sage these days is in stuffing for the Thanksgiving turkey. Sage is much too good to bring out only for the holidays. Sage helps digest grease in fatty foods as an added bonus. Try some interesting old and new sage recipes.

Tarragon Recipes and Cooking Instructions

Tarragon is a bittersweet herb with a hint of licorice flavor, but too much can overwhelm your recipe. Learn how to cook with tarragon and try some new recipes.

Thyme Recipes and Cooking Information

Thyme is good not only in savory dishes, but also desserts. Learn the history of thyme and try some new recipes.

Gernot Katzer's Spice Pages

This excellent spice reference includes information on 113 spices with information on usage, history, and reference photos and graphics.