Cranberries are a popular winter fruit, but available year-round frozen and canned. These recipes use cranberries as an ingredient.

All About Cranberries

Truly fresh cranberries will bounce if you drop them and are quite firm to the touch. They should be shiny and plump and range in color from bright light red to dark red. Cranberries are available year-round in canned, frozen, and dried forms. Learn all about cranberries before trying one of the many cranberry recipes.

Apple Bowls Recipe - How to make an apple bowl decoration

Use an apple to make a bowl for dips, pudding and fruit desserts, or even as a decorative candle-holder for parties. Studded with cloves placed in a designed pattern, these bowls are aromatic as well as pleasing to the eye. You can make the design as simple as a diamond grid or as intricate as a picture.

Apple Couscous Acorn Squash Recipe

Apples, cranberries, prunes, pecans, and maple syrup flavor the couscous stuffing for acorn squash. Although this recipe is vegetarian and low-fat, it does not lack for flavor.

Apple-Cranberry Jelly Chews

Jelly candies are made from fresh fruit. Variations also included for apple-cranberry, pineapple, and raspberry-cranberry versions.

Beets, Red Cabbage, and Cranberries Recipe

The natural sweetness of beets goes well with spiced red cabbage and cranberries for a delicious and unusual side dish that all will enjoy year-round. It is good warm, at room temperature, and even chilled.

Blueberry Lavender Cranberry Crisp Recipe

Lavender flowers give spring flavor to fresh blueberry and cranberry crisp. This easy dessert goes together quickly. Be sure to read up on edible flowers before you buy your tulips for this dessert.

Boneless Stuffed Turkey Recipe

You can fit more stuffing in a boneless turkey and have an easier time carving it to boot. Your guests will never know by looking at it that the turkey has been deboned. Visually, it looks just like a standard stuffed turkey. This recipe was designed for use in a counter-top roaster oven but may be prepared in a standard oven as well.

Candied Cranberries with Brandy Recipe

You must try these candied cranberries baked in the oven and flavored with brandy. I'm not sure where the recipe originated, but my Granny-Ma used to make it for the holidays, primarily because it was so easy yet still impressive.

Crockpot Cranberry Dijon Pork Roast Recipe

Cranberry sauce, herbs and spices combine into a deliciously different flavor for pork cooked in the crockpot.

Couscous Salad with Dried Cranberries and Pecans Recipe

Along with couscous, cranberries, and pecans, this salad also includes peas, scallions, cucumbers, and fresh basil. It is topped with an easy lemon garlic dressing. The salad may be served warm, at room temperature or chilled.

Cranberries Amaretto Recipe

This chunky cranberry sauce is flavored with amaretto liqueur and orange marmalade.

Cranberry and Grand Marnier Glazed Pork Tenderloin Recipe

Butterflied pork tenderloin is stuffed with havarti cheese, cranberries, herbs, and garlic and topped with a Grand Marnier glaze.

Cranberry Apple Dessert Risotto Recipe

Risotto becomes dessert with the aid of cranberries and apples. As with traditional risottos, plan on babysitting it and stir, stir, stir.

Cranberry Apple Pie Recipe

Tart cranberries balance sweet raisins and apples in this easy pie. It begins with pre-made pie crusts to save time, but feel free to make your own.

Cranberry Bread Recipe

Use frozen cranberries to give zing to this sweet nut bread. Great for Thanksgiving or year-round, and it makes a great gift from the kitchen.

Cranberry Cheesecake Bars Recipe

Made with canned whole berry cranberry sauce, you can enjoy these moist bars year-round for breakfast, brunch, or dessert. It is not a true cheesecake filling, since it contains no eggs, but the flavor is definitely there. This bar cookie recipe works well for potluck dinners or crowd gatherings since you can cut them to whatever size you need and they are delicious at room temperature.

Cranberry Chutney Recipe

Cranberries are the star in this fresh fruit and nut chutney. It goes together fast and will keep several weeks in the refrigerator. Use as a condiment with pork and poultry.

Cranberry Cornbread Stuffing Recipe

Sausage, dried cherries, prunes, and sage perk up this cornbread stuffing. Dried cranberries may be substituted for all of the dried fruit, if you wish.

Cranberry Fig Chutney Recipe

Fresh cranberries and dried figs make an intriguing chutney perfect as a condiment for meats and poultry.

Cranberry Herb Sauce Recipe

Cranberries are spiced with herbs, sweetened with honey, and cooked in wine to make a savory sauce good with vegetables and meats.

Cranberry Ice Cream Recipe

Cranberry ice cream is especially nice for the holidays. It is easy to make at home. If you cannot find fresh cranberries, try using frozen ones with a slight reduction in cooking time.

Cranberry Jezebel Sauce Recipe

There is something truly magical about this sweet, tangy, and spicy sauce that is especially good on pork and poultry. Try it as a spread over room temperature cream cheese for a delightfully different appetizer. If you prefer a smoother sauce, simply whir in a blender to the desired consistency before chilling.

Cranberry Ketchup Recipe

This ketchup is made with cranberries and spices. It is a great condiment with meats, especially poultry. Plan ahead to let it sit at least 2 weeks for flavors to meld before using.

Cranberry Liqueur Recipe

One of our readers submitted this interesting concoction which combines vodka, sweetened condensed milk, and cranberry sauce. Great for a Thanksgiving gathering or any party since it makes a lot.

Cranberry Orange Lamb Chops Recipe

Whip up these lamb chops in the microwave. The dish can be partially cooked in advance and frozen for a quick meal later. Fast and easy.

Cranberry Orange Marmalade Recipe

Grand Marnier and brandy mix with cranberries and oranges in this marmalade perfect for gift-giving.

Cranberry Orange Pound Cake Recipe

Orange marmalade gives extra dimension to delicious cranberry pound cake enriched with sour cream. The recipe uses dried cranberries so you can enjoy it year-round or feel free to substitute dried cherries. This tasty fruited loaf cake makes a great gift from the kitchen. Try it lightly toasted and spread with butter for breakfast. Yum!

Cranberry Orange Streusel Cake Recipe

A sweet walnut streusel mixture tops this easy and delicious fresh cranberry cake. The cake is easily frozen and reheated.

Cranberry Pecan Stuffed Chicken in Phyllo Recipe

Dried cranberries give a touch of sweetness and tang to the stuffing for chicken breasts wrapped in phyllo dough.

Cranberry Pepper Pork Loin Roast Recipe

The sweet and spicy combination of cranberries and chipotle chile pepper make this pork loin roast irresistable. Need to cook pork to death these days. A faint pink center will ensure that this roast will be moist and tender. Plan ahead for marination time.

Cranberry Pineapple Bars Recipe

Fresh cranberries give tartness while pineapple sweetens these bar cookies. The pecan and oatmeal streusel topping is the perfect finishing touch. These are quite easy to make.

Cranberry Potato Coffee Cake Recipe

Potatoes make this cinnamon coffee cake surprisingly light, although it is dense and chewy. Check out this variation using dried cranberries or substitute other dried fruit.

Cranberry Pumpkin Waffles Recipe

Delicious cranberry pumpkin waffles may also be made as pancakes for a fruity breakfast. To make pancakes, simply thin the batter with a bit more milk. Top with sour cream, raisins, and confectioners' sugar.

Cranberry Raisin Fruitcake Recipe

For those who do not care for citron, try this fruitcake. It uses dried cranberries, raisins, apricot preserves, pecans, and brandy. Feel free to add raisins or other favorite dried fruits in place of part of the apricots. Enjoy this fruitcake year-round.

Cranberry Shallot Chutney Recipe

Cranberries and shallots shine in this chutney, but it also includes the delicious flavors of apples, raisins, and optional nuts. Use this chutney as a condiment with turkey, duck, pork, or over cheesecake.

Cranberry Soda Molded Salad Recipe

This classic gelatin salad made with cranberry sauce, cream cheese, pineapple, pecans, and lemon soda never goes out of style.

Cranberry Streusel Cake Recipe

If need be, you can use frozen cranberries for this brightly-flavored cake. The streusel topping is added late in the baking process so it doesn't sink to the bottom.

Cranberry Stuffed Acorn Squash Recipe

Orange marmalade, cranberries, brown sugar, sweet onion, and spices sweeten up stuffed acorn squash cooked in the microwave. Kids may even consider this dessert!

Cranberry Tree Recipe - How to make a cranberry tree decoration

This cranberry tree will make a lovely addition to your fall and winter holiday decorations. If you use the freshest cranberries, your cranberry tree will last up to two weeks or even longer. Stud it with whole cloves, and you also have an aromatic air freshener. This is a fun project for older children. Read through the instructions to catch the tips and hints before you begin.

Cranberry Yam Casserole Recipe

Take a break from yams with marshmallows and try this recipe. Cranberries, oranges, Grand Marnier, pecans, and spices make a wonderful addition to yams or sweet potatoes. It is easy to make and makes an impressive presentation.

Cranberry-Pecan Stuffing Recipe

Dried cranberries and pecans give a fruity touch to dressing. This may sound perfect for Thanksgiving, but it is good year-round. Use it to stuff a chicken or cornish game hens or just as a side dish.

Creole Christmas Fruitcake with Whiskey Sauce Recipe

This festive Christmas fruitcake incorporates fruits, nuts, Grand Marnier, and bourbon then smothered in whiskey sauce.

Crispy Crunchy Granola Munchies Recipe

Fruits and nuts are mixed with a honey butter mixture and baked into a crunchy granola snack mixture that kids love. Store in an airtight container to preserve the crunchy texture.

Crunchy Cranberry Buttermilk Muffins Recipe

Fresh cranberries and buttermilk give tang to these tasty muffins, while oatmeal adds crunch. Muffins may be made ahead and frozen.

Fifty-Fifty Cranberry Stuffing Recipe

You get both bread and cornbread in this hearty stuffing. The cranberries give it a hint of sweetness and a nice moist texture. Use as a stuffing for turkey, chicken, or pork or simply bake it as a separate side dish.

Glazed Turkey Breasts with Cranberry and Chestnut Stuffing Recipe

Turkey breasts or slices are layered with savory dressing made with canned chestnuts and cranberries.

Grand Marnier Cranberry Muffins Recipe

Grand Marnier, orange juice, and zest give an extra burst of flavor to these cranberry muffins. Use frozen cranberries if fresh are not in season.

Grand Marnier Cranberry Sauce Recipe

If you've never made your own cranberry sauce, start with this one. Unlike most cranberry sauces which are boiled, this one is baked. Easy cranberry sauce is flavored with Grand Marnier and orange juice. If you do not have Grand Marnier or don't want to use liquor, simply substitute an equal amount of orange juice concentrate. May be made up to a week in advance.

Lamb Shanks with Portobello Mushrooms and Dried Cranberries Recipe

This hearty dish combines dried cranberries, portobello mushrooms, and wine to braise lamb shanks, all served on top of noodles.

Maple Cranberry Sauce Recipe

The flavor of this rich homemade cranberry sauce is enhanced with walnuts, maple syrup, and Zinfandel wine. You'll want to double this recipe. May be made in advance and refrigerated.

Mini Fruitcakes with Cream Cheese Frosting Recipe

Mini fruitcakes are filled with pineapple, apricots, cranberries, and pecans and topped with luscious cream cheese frosting. Perfect for gifts.

Nutty Wild Rice Sausage Stuffing Recipe

Sausage, mushrooms, walnuts, cranberries, and thyme flavor this easy wild rice stuffing. The recipe makes enough to stuff a 12 to 14-pound turkey. You can easily halve the recipe to use with a chicken roaster.

Phyllo Stuffed Chicken Recipe

Phyllo Stuffed Chicken Recipe. Wow the tastebuds and eyes of your family and guests with these delicious stuffed chicken breasts wrapped in flaky phyllo dough.

Pomegranate Port Vinaigrette Recipe

Delicious vinaigrette uses pomegranate juice, vegetables, and port wine. A sweet red wine may be substituted for the port, if need be. If the use of a raw egg yolk concerns you, irradiated eggs are now available in most markets.

Pumpkin Cranberry Cake Recipe

Cranberries and canned pumpkin with a variety of spices make a fabulous cake. Choose from a crumb topping or a simple icing. This deliciously different cake is very easy to make.

Raspberry-Cranberry Jelly Chews Recipe

Jelly candies are made from fresh fruit. Variations also included for apple-cranberry, pineapple, and raspberry-cranberry versions.

Roast Chicken with Cranberry Gravy Recipe

Chicken is roasted with herbs and sweet potatoes and accompanied by a low-fat cranberry gravy.

Seared Chicken Breast with Quick Pan Sauce Recipe

This technique and the accompanying sauces also would work well with turkey cutlets, boneless pork chops, or sliced pork loin.

Soda Pop Cranberry Pecan Biscuits Recipe

Dried cranberries and pecans are the perfect addition to simple and easy 7-Up biscuits. They are topped with a simple glaze. May be made ahead and frozen.

Steamed Cranberry Pudding Recipe

Traditional cranberry pudding is flavored with spices and topped with cranberry glaze. This is a perfect dessert for a Thanksgiving meal.

Sticky Red Wings Recipe

Pomegranates and cranberries give these red wings color and flavor. Jalapeno chiles give the chicken wings a nice kick to offset the sweetness of the fruit.

Turducken Recipe

What is turducken? It is a chicken stuffed inside a duck which is then stuffed inside a turkey. The term turducken comes from the combination of tur(key), duck, and (chick)en. It's fast becoming a popular recipe for Thanksgiving. Each slice contains portions of chicken, duck, and turkey with stuffing in between the layers.

Turkey Salad with Cranberry Balsamic Vinaigrette Recipe

Use canned or cooked turkey and cranberry sauce for a salad with a Thanksgiving flair. Raisins add additional sweetness to offset the balsamic vinegar while water chestnuts and toasted pecans add crunch. Try substituting chicken, if you wish. Both the salad and vinaigrette may be made in advance.

Venison with Cranberries Recipe

Fresh cranberries, citrus, ginger, and wine make a great sauce for roast venison. The sauce may be made in advance and reheated. The venison is roasted to medium-rare to preserve its flavor and texture. Overcooking will make it tough.

Wassail Recipe

Wassail is an traditional, hearty drink flavored with fruit and spices. This rum version is sure to warm you through any cold weather but is especially popular during the Christmas and New Year's holidays.

Wild Cranberry Sauce Recipe

Wild cranberries, apple juice, pears, and raisins make a great sauce. It will keep for 2 weeks in the refrigerator, so save some time by making it in advance. Fast and easy to make. If you do not have access to wild cranberries, you may substitute commercial fresh or frozen cranberries.