Fruit Recipes. Fruits lend a sweet touch to both savory dishes and desserts. Exotic fruit recipes as well as common fruits are included.

Amaretto Apricots Recipe

Simple and easy, apricots are paired with an amaretto almond sauce for a quick make-ahead dessert.

Anzonini's Water-cured Green Olives Recipe

These water-cured olives are flavored with lemon, oregano, wine vinegar, and garlic.

Apple Butter Recipe

Apple butter contains no butter, much like buttermilk. It is a spiced spread used like butter, but made from apples.

Apple Recipes

The versatile apple can be used in all types of dishes. Learn how to cook Apple Beignets, Apple Pork Chops, Apple Butter, Spareribs, Apples & Sauerkraut, and many more savory and sweet apple recipes.

Apple Squares with Pecans Recipe

Apples and pecans are the stars of this delicious moist cake. The recipe makes enough for a crowd, so it is perfect for potluck dinners, parties, and family gatherings.

Apricot Bread Pudding Recipe

Use fresh or dried apricots in this full-flavored fruit bread pudding.

Apricot Recipes

Apricots are a delightful addition to a wide variety of savory and sweet dishes. Try such apricot recipes as Apricot Curry Prawns, Apricot Potato Coffee Cake, Roasted Spicy Apricot Wings, Velvety Apricot Cake, and more.

Avocado Recipes

Many consider the avocado as a vegetable, but it is botanically a fruit. The avocado is also known as the alligator pear in many areas. Try such avocado recipes as Chunky Guacamole, Green Goddess Dressing, Vegetables with Avocado Aioli, and many more.

Baked Apricots in Almond Cream Recipe

Fresh apricots and almonds marry perfectly in this easy, yet elegant dessert.

Baked Figs with Honey and Whiskey Recipe

Baked figs are sweetened with honey, kicked up with Scotch whiskey, and topped with toasted hazelnuts.

Baked Figs With Honey Ice Cream Recipe

Homemade honey ice cream is topped with baked figs for a fabulous dessert.

Baked Stuffed Papayas Recipe

This unusual recipe features papayas with a stuffing of ground beef, tomatoes, garlic, onions, and Parmesan cheese.

Banana Recipes

Bananas are such a common fruit, we scarcely give them a second thought. However bananas have a very interesting genesis and background, are good for the body, and can even waylay a hangover. Bananas are not just for banana bread. Try such banana recipes as Banana Ketchup, Banana Rum Puffs, Chicken Columbo, and more.

Candied Apples Recipe

Make your own candied apples at home. Great for bake sales or fund-raisers.

Candied Figs, Apricots or Tomatoes Recipe

This is a great way to preserve fruits, especially figs, apricots, and tomatoes.

Candied Grapefruit Pith Recipe

Instead of throwing away grapefruit pith, candy it and use as a spread.

Cherry Recipes

Dessert recipes abound for both sweet and sour cherries, but cherries can also give a touch of class to savory dishes and vegetables. These recipes use fresh, dried, and canned cherries. Indulge yourself with such cherry recipes as Almost Cherry Garcia Cookies, Cherry Beer Cake, Cherry Cornbread Stuffing, Cherry Pork Wrap, and more.

Chilled Strawberry Orange Soup Recipe

Whip up this delicious fruit soup in a food processor or blender in a matter of minutes. Frozen strawberries may be substituted for fresh.

Chocolate Amaretti Peaches Recipe

Fresh peaches are filled with a spiced chocolate cookie mixture, then microwaved for a quick dessert.

Chocolate Dipped Apricots Recipe - South Beach Diet Phase 3

Chocolate Dipped Apricots Recipe - South Beach Diet Phase 3. Delicious fruity morsels of dried apricots are not just for diets. The dried apricots are dipped in chocolate, then sprinkled with pistachios. These are very easy to make and enjoyed by non-dieters as well as dieters. Great for gifts from the kitchen.

Chocolate-Dipped Grand Marnier Strawberries Recipe

Truly decadent chocolate-dipped strawberries are stepped up a notch with the injection of Grand Marnier. Easy to make and impressive.

Coconut Recipes

Fresh or packaged coconut work well in both sweet and savory coconut recipes. Learn how to make your own coconut milk at home and try such recipes as Coconut Beer Shrimp, Coconut Muffins, Pongaroons, Stone Crab Cobbler, and more.

Cranberries Amaretto Recipe

This chunky cranberry sauce is flavored with amaretto liqueur and orange marmalade.

Fig Apple Compote Recipe

Apples and figs are baked with a spiced syrup for an easy fruit dessert.

Fig Recipes

If you don't have access to fresh figs, dried figs can be substituted in many fig recipes. Try a figgy pudding (like in the Christmas song), Fresh Fig Preserves, Fig Sugarplums, Cornish Hens Stuffed with Brandied Figs, and more.

Fig Sugarplums Recipe

Dried figs are stuffed with a variety of sweet fillings. Great for an appetizer or dessert tray at parties.

Figs Poached in White Wine and Fresh Thyme Recipe

Figs are cooked in honey and wine boosted with thyme and peppercorns.

Fresh Apricot Souffle Recipe

Deliciously light souffle custard is the perfect showcase dessert for fresh apricots.

Fresh Figs and Raspberries With Mint-Infused Ganache Recipe

Fresh figs and raspberries are topped with an easy chocolate mint sauce and almonds.

Frozen Flower Bowl with Fruit Salad Recipe

Flowers are frozen into bowl shapes then filled with fruit salad for a beautiful presentation. Orange dressing makes a wonderful topper for any variety of fruit salad.

Fruit Pizza Recipe

Dessert pizza has a cookie dough crust, a cream cheese sauce, and is topped with your favorite fruits.

Gingered Figs Recipe

Figs cooked in molasses and ginger are great with ham, pork, chicken, steak, or roast beef.

Gourmet Glazed Figs Recipe

Figs simmered with cloves and brandy and stuffed with almonds. Great with turkey, baked chicken, beef, pork or ham.

Grand Marnier Fruit Salad Recipe

This non-fat fruit salad gets a kick from Grand Marnier and makes a very colorful dessert.

Greek-Style Ripe Olives Recipe

If you have an olive tree, try curing your own ripe olives at home.

Grilled Figs With Thyme, Honey and Gorgonzola Toasts Recipe

Honey and thyme marry beautifully with figs atop Gorgonzola toasts.

Homemade Coconut Cream Recipe

Do not confuse coconut milk with coconut cream. It is easy to make your own coconut cream at home.

Homemade Coconut Milk Recipe

Do not confuse coconut water fresh from the coconut with coconut milk. It is easy to make your own coconut milk at home.

Homemade Maraschino Cherries Recipe

If you knew how commercial maraschino cherries are made, you would jump at making your own at home.

How to Peel a Litchi (Lychee) - Step by step instructions

At first glance, the litchi is a fruit that looks like a strawberry with alligator skin, which is why some folks call them alligator strawberries in the South. You must peel the litchi to get to the edible interior. Learn how to peel litchi (lychee) fruit to get to the luscious pulp. Step by step instructions with photos show you how to strip away the tough litchi skin.

How to Toast or Color Coconut Recipe

Toasting coconut gives an added flavor dimension. Learn how to color your own coconut at home.

Janos Wilder's New American Haroset Recipe

Janos Wilder's New American Haroset Recipe. Serve this sweet fruit melange on the Seder plate for Passover and as a side dish.

Kiwi Recipes - Kiwifruit Recipes

In the States, these luscious fruits are known as kiwis, but down under, they are known as kiwifruit. The kiwi recipes include Kiwifruit Muffins, Kiwi Sorbet, a copycat recipe of Ben & Jerry's Kiwi Ice Cream, and more.

Lime Recipes - Key Lime Recipes

Key limes are smaller than the limes you are probably used to, and sweeter. Check out both Key lime recipes and lime recipes, including Beef Fajitas, Key Lime Pie, Stone Crab Cobbler, and more.

Limes Filled with Coconut Recipe

Lime rinds are candied and filled with sweetened coconut.

Lye-Cured Green Olives Recipe

Many olives are cured using lye. It is time-consuming but worth the effort, especially if you have an olive tree.

Mandarin Orange Vinaigrette Recipe

This simple vinaigrette recipe gets an additional tang of flavor from mandarin orange juice. The dressing may be served warm or cold and is especially good over spinach salad.

Marinated Figs with Buttermilk-Honey Sorbet Recipe

Buttermilk, honey, and citrus sorbet showcase baked figs marinated in creme de cassis.

Marmalade Recipes

Most people immediately associate marmalade with oranges, but that's not necessarily the case. Marmalades are great in sauces for savory foods as well as sweets. Try such marmalade recipes as Homemade Orange Marmalade, Kiwi Lime Marmalade, Blueberry Marmalade, and more.

Olive Recipes

Many people do not think of olives as a fruit, but they are indeed the fruit of the olive tree. The olive recipe collection includes not only those using olives, but also large amounts of olive oil. Try homemade cured olives, Olive Pate, Moussaka, Olive Tapenade, and more.

Papaya Recipes

Both ripe and unripe papayas make for great dishes and do double-duty as a tenderizer in some recipes. Bring an exotic touch to both savory dishes and desserts with papayas. The papaya recipes include Papaya Chutney, Venison Chili with Papaya, Papaya Ice Cream, and more.

Peaches Baked in Amaretto Recipe

Fresh peaches stuffed with almond macaroons and amaretto make a quick and elegant dessert.

Phoebe Snow's Mashed Maple Syrup Apples Recipe

This homestyle apple dessert is mixed with walnuts and cinnamon and is sweetened with maple syrup.

Pickled Peaches Recipe

Fresh sweet peaches are pickled and spiced for a real treat.

Pineapple Banana Cheese Dessert Recipe

This tasty dessert is made with cottage cheese, pineapple, banana, and gelatin.

Pineapple Grape Coleslaw Recipe

Try this delicious coleslaw sweetened with pineapple and grapes for a change.

Pineapple Recipes

As well as being tasty in desserts or just to eat fresh, pineapples help tenderize meats. Indulge yourself with such pineapple recipes as traditional Dump Cake, Pineapple Upside-Down Cake, Pineapple Pork Chili in the Crockpot, Thai Pineapple Rice, and more.

Plum Recipes

Dried plums are prunes, so prune recipes are also included here. Try such plum recipes as Chinese Duck Plum Sauce, Plum Jam, Lamb Shanks with Roasted Plums, Vodka Marinated Plums, and more.

Pomegranate Recipes

It's well worth your effort to work with the seedy pomegranate to get to the juice. Try such pomegranate recipes as Homemade Grenadine, Pomegranate Jelly, Pomegranate Vinegar, Sticky Red Wings, and more.

Raisin Recipes

In most cases, dark raisins can be substituted for currants and golden raisins and vice versa. Raisins are also good with many meats and poultry. These raisin recipes include Fruitcake, Raisin Bread, Bread Pudding, Coffee Cake, Chili, and more.

Rice, Apple and Raisin Dressing Recipe

Rice, Apple and Raisin Dressing Recipe. Rice-based stuffing is flavored with spices, vegetables, and fruit.

Rose Hip Soup Recipe

Rose hips are the fruit of a variety of rose bush, and they make great soup!

Rose Hip Syrup Recipe

Rose hips are the fruit of a variety of rose bush. Make this delicious syrup to use on pancakes, ice cream, and desserts.

Salt-Cured Ripe Olives Recipe

Salt-cured olives are flavorful, but somewhat bitter. Staunch olive fans love them.

Scalloped Apples With Raisins Recipe

This delicious apple and raisin dessert is lightly spiced and cooked in foil packets on the barbecue grill.

Shrimp Avocado Boats Recipe

Shrimp Avocado Boats Recipe. Chunky shrimp salad combines the briny flavor of shrimp with the sweet flavors of fresh cantaloupe and honeydew melons, accompanied by the velvety goodness of avocado.

Strawberry Recipes

These recipes use fresh and frozen strawberries. If you are allergic to strawberries, many of these recipes will work by substituting another type of berry. Try such strawberry recipes as Strawberry Vinegar, Strawberry Wine, Strawberry Jam, Strawberry Muffins, and more.

Thyme Applesauce Recipe

Thyme Applesauce Recipe. Homemade applesauce is so simple to make. This version has a subtle hint of thyme flavor, however it is easily omitted for a traditional applesauce.

Wine Poached Fruits Recipe

Apple, pear, apricot, cherries, and figs are poached in a wine sauce spiced with vanilla and cinnamon, served over ice cream.