Chinese pork recipes - Information and resources pertaining to preparing Chinese food made with pork, including stir-fried and deep fried pork dishes. Includes Cantonese, Szechuan, and Shanghai pork recipes.

Baked Pork Chops With Orange Flavor

A good choice for busy weeknights - pork chops are coated with an orange juice-based marinade and baked.

Char Siu Barbecued Pork

A recipe for roast pork, the key ingredient in popular steamed pork buns (Char Siu Bao), from cookbook author Deh-Ta Hsiung.

Chop Suey With Pork

The quintessential comfort dish - pork and vegetables cooked in a flavorful sauce. The recipe calls for pork but beef can be used instead.

Baked Pork Recipe - Chinese Baked Pork

Baked pork recipe - Hoisin sauce adds its own special flavor to this easy recipe for pork leg that is marinated and baked.

Easter Ham

A smoked ham, seasoned with Asian ingredients, is perfect for Easter celebrations. This feature from your Guide includes recipes for leftovers.

Four Happiness Pork Recipe

Pork is boiled and then braised in seasonings in this flavorful Shanghai dish.

Hoisin Pork Stir-fry Recipe

A spicy hoisin sauce mixture serves as both marinade and sauce in this easy stir-fry that is perfect for busy weeknights.

Fried Pork With Spring Onions (Green Onions, Scallions)

Pork is marinated in rice wine and sauteed in this quick and easy recipe.

Honey Ham

This sweet and savory dish is popular in south-west China.

Lion's Head Recipe - Lion's Head Meatball Stew

Lion's Head - This popular casserole dish gets its fun name from the oversized meatballs representing a lion's head, and the cabbage leaves which are meant to represent its mane. Lion's Head Meatballs Recipe.

Mo Qua - Chinese Stuffed Fuzzy Melon Recipe

Fuzzy melon or mo qua is stuffed with marinated pork and steamed in this HeartSmart recipe.

Much Ado About Mu Shu

Restaurant goers and cooks alike will enjoy this article about Mu Shu Pork, a popular dish from Beijing. Includes an authentic recipe and lots of variations. From your Guide.

Orange Pork Chop Stir-fry

Asian ingredients lend flavor to a stir-fry in this pork chop recipe.

Pork Stir-fry Recipes

Here are a collection of my favorite pork stir-fry recipes, from Pork Chop Suey and Pork With Plum Sauce to Mu Shu Pork and Pork Fried Rice.

Pork With Lychees

Marinated boneless pork is cooked with sweet lychees in this easy stir-fry dish.

Red Cooked Pork With Beer

Red Cooked Pork - Created by chef Martin Yan, this recipe for Red Cooked Pork with beer consists of pork marinated in a soy and five spice blend and braised in a Tsingtao Lager hoisin sauce.

Spicy Pork With Hoisin Stir-fry

Pork is marinated and stir-fried in a sweet and spicy hoisin sauce.

Steamed Meat Cake

Meat Cake - this traditional Chinese recipe for steamed meat cake is made with pickled lettuce.

Stir-Fried Pork and Peppers with Buckwheat Noodles

This recipe for Stir-fried Pork and Peppers with a flavorful peanut sauce comes from 5 Easy Steps to Healthy Cooking

Stir-fry Pork Strips With Cucumber

Stir-fry Pork Strips With Cucumber - an easy stir-fry pairing pork and refreshing cucumber with an oyster flavored sauce.

Sweet and Sour Pork

Black rice vinegar adds a tart flavor to the sauce in this sweet and sour pork recipe.

Sweet and Sour Pork, Cantonese Style

A traditional Cantonese sweet and sour dish, prepared American-style with more batter and deep-fried for extra crispiness.

Sweet and Sour Pork Chops

Sweet and Sour Pork Chops - Looking for a new way to serve pork chops? The pork chops are combined with garlic and ginger and vegetables and coated in a flavorful sweet and sour sauce in this sweet and sour pork recipe from Jaden Hair

Chinese Pork Recipes

Chinese pork recipes - Includes favorites such as Moo Shu and Sweet and Sour Pork and Lion's Head Meatballs

Twice Cooked Pork

Pork is cooked twice in this simple but tasty Szechuan dish.

Twice Cooked Pork - Another Recipe

A simpler recipe, using chile paste.

Stir-fried Lychee Pork With Vegetables

Stir-fry Lychee Pork - the gentle sweet flavor of canned lychees pairs nicely with pork in this easy stir-fry from The Everything Stir-fry Cookbook.