Spinach Pie with Feta - SpanakopitaA delicious phyllo pie made with spinach and feta cheese, Spanakopita is a classic Greek favorite that will work as an appetizer, side dish or even a light lunch or dinner. Eggplant and Roasted Red Pepper Pita - MelitzanopitaA savory combination of eggplant, roasted red peppers, and Feta cheese layered in phyllo pastry dough and baked until flaky and golden brown. Perfect as a light vegetarian meal or tasty appetizer. Spanakopita Tart with Bacon and MushroomsA rustic spinach tart pays homage to the classic Spanakopita, but ups the ante with the added flavors of bacon and mushrooms. Artichoke and Leek Pie - AginaropitaTender baby artichokes are combined with green onions, leek, and a combination of Greek cheeses then layered with flaky phyllo pastry sheets and baked until crisp and golden brown. 5-Cheese Pie with Mushrooms - Typropita me ManitariaThis cheese-lover's dream is made with a fabulous combination of five cheeses, fresh cap mushrooms, and commercial packaged phyllo sheets. A party favorite! Cheese & Honey Pie - MelopitaMyzithra cheese, honey, and cinnamon create a fabulous filling for this pan-sized cheese pie. Cheese Pie with Puff Pastry - Tyropita me SfoliataA quick recipe for Greek cheese pie with feta cheese  that takes 15 minutes to prepare and 30 minutes to cook. This is a great choice for busy cooks. Chicken Pie - KotopitaThis versatile combination of chicken and cheese enclosed in a phyllo crust is a delightful appetizer, snack, picnic treat, or light meal. Lahanopita - Baked Cabbage Pita with Celery and CarrotTender cooked cabbage, celery root, and carrot are combined with feta and kasseri cheese to make a delicious savory pie. Country Macaroni Pie - Makaronopita HoriatikiA country favorite, this simple version of macaroni pie with feta cheese is best made with homemade phyllo dough, but can be easily adapted to use packaged phyllo (filo). Eggplant & Meat Pie - MeltizanopitaThe combination of eggplant, ground beef, tomatoes, rice, and feta cheese make this pan pie a delicious appetizer, snack, or main course.  The crust crisps up beautifully. Feta Cheese Pie - Pita me FetaDifferent than the more well-known "cheese pies" made with phyllo dough, this is a delicious pie similar to a quiche, made with feta cheese, eggs, and yogurt. Delicious served as a snack with coffee, or as a breakfast dish. Greens Pie - HortopitaUsing puff pastry to make the crust of this pie gives a different texture.  Greens can be any of your choosing, a mix of sweet and bitter, wild or cultivated. Leek Pie - PrasopitaThis classic Greek pan pie works wonderfully as an appetizer, snack, side dish, or main dish.  Made with leeks, cheese, and packaged phyllo sheets, the recipe is straightforward with no surprises. Onion & Bacon Phyllo Pie - KremmythopitaVersatile phyllo dough forms the top and bottom layers of this pan-sized pie filled with a mixture of eggs, onion, and bacon. Party Pan Pies with Round Springform PansPies made with phyllo dough crusts ("pites") are fabulous party foods.  Learn to make them in smaller springform pans for easy eating and attractive presentation, with step by step photos. Pumpkin Pie - KolokythopitaThis is a pie in the Greek tradition - made with phyllo dough, olive oil, honey, sugar, and cinnamon - with a syrup topping. Raggedy Phyllo Cheese Pie with Photos - PatsavouraA great way to use leftover phyllo sheets and those that get broken or torn.  This cheese pie is delicious, beautiful, and no one will ever know the phyllo isn't perfect. Spinach & Herb Pie without Cheese - SpanakopitaThis is the version without cheese, and the combination of spinach, herbs, and phyllo creates a delightful dish. This is the most traditional type of pita (pie). Sweet Bunched Phyllo Pie with Yogurt & Syrup - Patsavoura GlykoSometimes called the "lazy cook's pie," this delicious sweet version of phyllo pie is easy to make with bunched phyllo (filo), yogurt, sugar, and eggs, topped with a sweet syrup. Chicken Phyllo Pie - KotopitaA delicious savory pie made with a moist and flavorful chicken filling topped with flaky phyllo dough sheets and baked to a golden brown.  This recipe for Chicken Phyllo Pie or Kotopita is great for an entree or an appetizer. Pumpkin Pita - Coiled Kolokithopita from SamosThis pumpkin pita recipe is one of the specialties of the island of Samos, a beautiful island in the eastern part the Aegean Sea.