Information about Asian fruits, and the use of all types of fruit in Asian recipes.

Asian Cherry Buns

Asian Cherry Buns - take advantage of cherry season with these easy to make baked buns.

Asian Fruit - Seasonal Availibility

A guide to when Asian fruits are in season.

Asian Pears Poached in Plum Sauce

Poached Pears Recipes - This Asian poached pear recipe features sweet, crunchy Asian pears poached in plum wine.

Asian Pear Recipes

Sometimes called apple pears because of their round shape and crunchy texture, the sweet flavor of Asian pears is featured in numerous recipes. (Other common names include balsam pear and salad pear). Asian pears are found in the produce section of many local supermarkets and groceries. Here are several recipes featuring this popular fruit:

Basic Papaya Mango Smoothie

Papaya Mango Smoothie - These tropical fruits work well in fruit smoothie recipes, and both are loaded with health benefits.

Blueberry Tofu Smoothie

Tart blueberry isn't a fruit normally featured in Chinese recipes, but here it combines nicely with silken tofu.

Candied Banana Fritters

Batter-covered bananas are deep-fried and coated in a syrupy glaze in this Chinese dessert.

Chicken With Peaches

Sweet peaches are combined with chicken and a tangy sauce in this simple stir-fry.

Chilled Melon Bowl

Fruits are lightly coated with a sugar syrup, packed in a melon bowl and chilled in this fun Chinese dessert recipe. (The recipe includes a photo).

Chilled Melon Fruit Salad

Here's a great dessert to impress guests - an assortment of seasonal fruits are tossed with a light sugar syrup and spooned into a half of a melon. The recipe calls for Chinese rock sugar, but you can substitute granulated sugar.

Chinese Fruit Salad

Banana, kiwi, peach, mango and fresh strawberries make up this Chinese fruit salad, sprinkled with sugar and five-spice powder.

Cooking With Fruit

Adding fruit to a main dish is a great way to help ensure that your family gets their recommended daily serving. From stir-fries to steamed ham with Asian pears, here are a number of Chinese and Asian-inspired main dish recipes featuring fruit.

Durian Ice Cream

The sweet flavor and thick texture of durian makes it perfect for ice cream. Use fresh durian if possible.

Easy Fruit Salad

This simple and refreshing fruit salad is loaded with health benefits, pairing mangoes and raspberries with bananas and grapes.

Eight Precious Pudding

Traditionally, this famous Chinese banquet dessert would contain eight kinds of dried candied fruits, representing eight precious stones.

Fruit Recipes

Fruit recipes. A variety of Chinese and Asian recipes using fruit, from stir-fries and fruit salads to ice cream.

Honey Pear Ham

This sweet and savory dish is popular in south-west China.

Kiwi Smoothie

Kiwi Smoothie - sweet kiwi fruit pairs nicely with nutty flavored tahini or sesame paste in this tropical smoothie recipe.

Lychee Granita

Lychee granita - Sweet lychee is combined with lime juice and vodka to make granita, also called ices.

Mangoes, Lychees and Mangosteen

Asian Fruit - Mangoes, Lychees, and Mangosteen - Learn how to choose and prepare these fruits, and try some recipes.

Mango Muffins

Sweet mango and coconut add flavor in this easy muffin recipe.

Mango Pudding Information

My article includes cooking tips and several recipes, including a low-fat Mango Pudding and Indonesian and Malaysian variations of this popular Chinese dessert.

Mango Pudding Recipe

Just need the recipe? This recipe from chef and cookbook author Stephen Wong is low in fat and includes a nutritional breakdown.

Chinese Mango Pudding - Step by Step Photo Instructions

Chinese Mango Pudding is the perfect dessert for capturing the sweet flavor of fresh mangoes.

Mango Smoothie

Mango smoothie - the tart flavor of mango works well in smoothies. Mango Smoothie recipe.

How Many Mangoes Do You Need to Make a Recipe?

Cooking With Mangoes - How many mangoes do you need to make a recipe?

Peach Mandarin Smoothie

Peach Mandarin Smoothie - Sweet peaches go nicely with mandarin orange in this refreshing peach smoothie.

Pineapple Chicken With Sweet and Sour Sauce

Deep-fried chicken coated with a sweet and sour sauce made with pineapple, brown sugar and vinegar.

Plums in Chinese Cooking

Along with a bit of history, my article includes a recipe for plum sauce.

Plum Sauce

A recipe for plum sauce, made with plum jam, allspice and ginger.

Pork With Lychees

Marinated boneless pork is combined with sweet lychees in this easy stir-fry dish.

Preserved Kumquats

Preserved kumquats - Resembling a miniature orange, kumquats are a popular treat during the Chinese New Year season, as they are a symbol of prosperity for the coming year.

Quiz - Asian Tropical Fruit - Photo Quiz

See if you can identify the different types of tropical fruit I sampled on a trip to the Asian market.

Refreshing Fruit Salads

Mangoes, melons, and kiwi fruit pair with strawberries, raspberries, and other fruits in these refreshing fruit salads

Romantic Chocolate Fondue for Two With Asian Fruit Dippers

A romantic chocolate fondue for two with pineapple and kiwi fruit for dipping. Sponge cake also makes an excellent dipper - just break the cake into pieces and dip into the warmed chocolate.

Steamed Chinese Fruitcake

This New Year's cake is traditionally fed to the Chinese "Kitchen God," to make sure the family will have good fortune throughout the coming year.

Steamed Pears With Honey

Sweet Asian pears are filled with honey and Chinese dates and gently steamed.

Stir-fried Chicken With Mango

A good example of new-style Chinese cooking which incorporates different fresh fruits as flavorings, from cookbook author Stephen Wong. The recipe includes a nutritional breakdown.

Strawberry Chicken Stir-fry

Here is an easy recipe to help you take advantage of fresh strawberries in season.

Tropical Fruit Fun - Asian Tropical Fruit

Did you know orangutans love mangoes or that durian is rumored to be an aphrodisiac? Find out more.

Tomatoes in Chinese Cooking

Tomatoes in Chinese Cooking - What role does the tomato play in the Chinese diet?