Greek Phyllo Cheese Triangles - TiropitesDelicious packets of crisp phyllo pastry wrapped around a savory cheese filling.  Enjoy these Greek Phyllo Cheese Triangles at your next gathering. Spinach Pie with Feta - SpanakopitaA delicious phyllo pie made with spinach and feta cheese, Spanakopita is a classic Greek favorite that will work as an appetizer, side dish or even a light lunch or dinner. Pita, Pites (plural), Pitaki, Pitakia (plural)The words "pita" (plural "pites") and their diminutives ("pitaki," "pitakia") are widely used in the names of Greek foods and should not be confused with "pita bread" which is entirely different.  Learn about this Greek cooking basic. Spanakopita Bites - Easy Spinach and Feta Cheese AppetizersSpanakopita Bites are mini phyllo pastry shells filled with a delicious spinach and feta cheese filling.  They are easy to prepare and can be a quick and easy alternative to rolling and wrapping individual phyllo triangles. Homemade Phyllo DoughPhyllo dough is easy to make, and the difference  when using it to make pitas and pastries is remarkable in taste and in ease of handling. Cheese Pie from Sfakia Crete - SfakianopitesSfakia is an area in southwestern Crete which is famous for its traditions and culture.  This local recipe for small fried cheese pies calls for ouzo and myzithra cheese. Cheese Pie Triangles - TyropitakiaWhether your passion is flaky pastry dough or the cheeses of Greece, these little cheese pie trianges are a delight. Try fixing them with young cooks since they are fun and easy, and the triangles are the perfect "kid size" for eating. Great finger food. Feta Croissants - Krouasan me FetaCroissants with a feta cheese filling are very easy to make with packaged croissant dough, and simply easy with homemade dough. They are delicious for breakfast, brunch, and on a buffet or cocktail table. Honey Coconut Turnovers - Skaltsounes me KarythaTurnovers ("skaltsounes") are Greek favorites and can be sweet or savory. This sweet version is a simple recipe calling for flour, sugar, eggs, olive oil (no butter), baking powder, coconut, and honey. Pistachio Turnovers - Skaltsounia me Fystikia AiginisThe Greek island of Aigina is famous for its pistachio nuts and this simple recipe showcases them beautifully. Salmon and Leek Pie with Phyllo Dough - Pita Strifti me SolomoThis fabulous coiled pita (filled phyllo pastry) is made with salmon, leeks, feta cheese, herbs, and spices. The pita is big and can be served as a main dish, or snack. Step-by-step photos. Savory Turnovers with Spinach or Greens and Herbs - HortopitakiaHortopitakia are small savory turnovers made with aromatic herbs and greens, including spinach. They are easy to make with homemade or commercial phyllo, and can be made ahead of time and frozen until ready to cook. Sweet Cheese & Honey Pies - MyzithropitakiaThis recipe for small cheese pies (pitakia) drizzled with honey calls for fresh, soft myzithra, a favorite dessert cheese.  Can't find myzithra cheese? Try ricotta cheese. Follow step-by-step instructions with photos to make this delicious dessert or snack. "Turban" Cheese Pie - SarikopitaThese cheese pies contain no sugar, either in the filling or the dough (homemade phyllo or a heavier weight commercial phyllo) and are a good choice for diabetics (without the optional dusting of confectioner's sugar). Spanakopita: Spinach & Cheese PieEntertaining Guide Donna Pilato suggests this spinach and feta cheese pie as a first course or side dish, and it is also great as a snack.