Information about Chinese desserts and Chinese desserts recipes, including cookies, tarts, doughnuts, fruit-based dishes, puddings, cakes (including New Years cake) and other specialties.

Easy Dessert Recipes

Easy dessert recipes - from fruit salad to pears with honey, here are my favorite easy to make dessert recipes.

Candied Walnuts

Candied Walnut Recipe - Walnuts are covered in a sugary coating and deep-fried in this sweet treat.

Black Sesame Soup (Sesame Tong Shui)

Made with black sesame seeds, this sweet dessert soup is rumored to help prevent gray hair.

Decadent Desserts

Learn more about Chinese desserts and try some recipes, in this feature from your Guide.

Bird's Nest Soup With Rock Sugar (Swallow's Nest Soup)

A sweet dessert soup made using the nest of the swiftlet, a type of swallow.

Chinese Crullers Recipe, Also Called Deep-fried Devils

Also called Deep-fried Devils, crullers are a popular street hawker food. They are also often enjoyed for breakfast with a bowl of congee.

Dofu Fa

This popular northern Chinese comfort food is made with soybean milk and topped with a sweet syrup.

Eight Precious Pudding

A popular Chinese banquet dessert, traditionally made with eight different types of dried fruits to represent eight precious stones.

Fortune Cookie Recipe

Learn how to make this popular cookie. The recipe includes a nutritional breakdown.

How to Make Fortune Cookies

Making fortune cookies can be a little tricky, but it's worth the effort! Here are tips on how to make this fortune cookies.

Mooncakes Recipe

A recipe for mooncakes, the Chinese snack traditionally served during the Moon or Mid-Autumn Festival.

Peking Dust

Fresh chestnuts are ground to represent the dust of the Mongolian dessert and topped with whipped cream.

Red Bean Paste

Made from azuki beans, sweet red bean paste is used in a number of Chinese desserts, including Red Bean Soup, Red Bean Paste Pancakes, and Sesame Seed Balls.

Red Bean Paste Pancakes Recipe - Chinese Crepe

The Chinese version of crepes, filled with sweet red bean paste that is made from adzuki beans.

Red Bean Soup

Serve as a snack or as a sweet dessert soup.

Sweet Red Bean Soup - Another Recipe

In this slighter different version, the soup is liquified before serving.

Sesame Seed Balls

Sesame Seed Balls are an especially popular treat during Chinese New Years, but you can find this delicious treat year around at most Asian bakeries.

What Did Rhonda Eat?

Take this online photo quiz to find out what I had to eat during a recent visit to a Chinese bakery.

Dessert Recipes from Your Guide

Over twenty recipes from my Chinese Food recipe file, including Almond Float, Banana Fritters, Bow Ties, Mango Pudding, Mooncakes, Ginger Ice Cream and Dofu Fa.

Muah Chee

Here is a good, basic recipe for this popular Chinese snack, made with peanuts and glutinous rice flour.

Taste of the Orient Peach Fantasy

A frozen dessert made with almond cookies, gelatin, and fresh ginger, from the Pastry Wiz Food Resource Center.

Scallion Pancakes

Scallion Pancakes - Nothing beats these savory treats for a snack. Here are several recipes for Scallion Pancakes