 How do you make a good thing even better? For some, that means building on the features that make an already solid product even more improved by adding extra polish. Then again, it’s an approach that requires a delicate balancing act lest the improvements added result in a different animal — one that takes away from what made the original product a good one in the first place. It’s the kind of balancing act that UK specialist headphone company RHA tries to do with its MA600i earbuds for iOS devices. As someone who reviewed the RHA MA150 and MA450i earlier, I have a pretty positive impression of the company’s earphones, particularly when it comes to their performance in relation to their price. The MA150 is particularly excellent for a $20 pair of no-frills, budget headphones, serving up big sound at an affordable price. With the $90 MA600i, however, RHA is stepping up closer to the premium category of the audio spectrum. With that step comes a whole slew of added expectations. For its part, RHA does a good job in glitzing up the MA600i. The packaging alone exudes extra oomph right off the bat, thanks to a nicely designed box with a magnetic cover. It even serves up a metal holder for its extra pair of earbuds. Also included is a hard carrying case with inner straps as well as a built-in pocket for holding things like extra buds or the cable clip. The premium feel does not stop with the packaging. Compared to the MA150 or even the $50 MA450i, the design of the MA600i earbuds are noticeably stepped up in terms of the materials used. The most obvious change in this regard involves the use of aluminum for certain parts. If Apple taught designers anything, it’s that using metal goes a long way in giving a gadget a more luxurious look. The cables are also improved by adding a plastic sheath on top of the wiring underneath ones. This adds extra ruggedness to the cable but still does a good job of preventing tangling. One of the key changes, though, is not quite as obvious on the surface. Inside the MA600i is a custom 320.1 driver that serves as its main audio engine. The audio itself sounds quite good with lots of detail on the high end and middle range, though the highs can be a bit harsh when it comes to certain sound effects for gaming. Like RHA’s other earbuds, the overall sound profile of the MA600i also serves up a healthy amount of bass. Even with the stock music player on the iPhone, for example, the headphone still pumped out some pretty good low end, though it wasn’t enough to liven up the less than flat sound of the regular player on my Samsung Galaxy S3. Use it with a music app or MP3 player with an equalizer, however, and you can squeeze out some really hefty thump. This is great for bassheads such as myself though it might be too much for folks who prefer a less bassy audio profile. Volume can be pushed pretty high until you ears bleed without noticeable distortion. Noise isolation is pretty solid as well, although it won’t drown out extraneous sounds completely. The MA600i also doubles as a speakerphone when used with an iPhone. In addition to controls for volume as well as playing, pausing and skipping tracks, the headphone also comes with a built-in mic. The play/pause button also works for accepting calls and hanging up. Although controls work great on an iPhone, it wasn’t fully compatible with my S3. As such, I wouldn’t recommend this for Android phones as only the play, pause and skip forward controls work with the device. The biggest issue I have with the MA600i, however, is fit. Although the black earbuds of the MA150 worked great for me, the lighter colored buds for the MA600i aren’t as sticky. Even when using different sizes, there’s just something about either the surface or pliability of the MA600i earbuds that makes it pop out more easily, especially on the slightly heavier left side that holds the control switch. It’s not too bad if you’re sitting still but becomes an issue if you’re moving. Overall, the MA600i is a solid headphone thanks to good sound as well as excellent build quality. The price is starting to get up there, though, and fit can be an issue with some folks, so make sure to keep those things in mind when looking at this earphone set. Final rating: 3.5 stars out of 5 For more articles on earphones, check out our Headphones and Speakers hub. 