Dateline: 11/04/99 Though it's often easier to buy pasta in a store, there is something
		special about making it from scratch at home: the quiet rhythms of kneading the
		dough, the exertion of rolling it out, the concentration involved in cutting
		the pasta into strips -- "Short bills and long tagliatelle, say the
		people of Bologna, knowing whereof they speak, for long bills frighten
		husbands, while short tagliatelle are proof of the inexperience of the person
		who made them, and look like left-overs when served," wrote Pellegrino Artusi a
		century ago... In short, making pasta at home is satisfying. Moreover, you can
		make precisely the shape you want, and make specially flavored pastas that are
		quite difficult to find in stores. To make enough home-made pasta to serve four
		to six as a first course, you will need: Make mound with the flour on your work surface and scoop out a well in
		the middle. Pour the eggs into the hole, add the salt, and work the eggs and
		the flour together till you have a smooth dough, adding just a drop of water if
		necessary, and no more. Knead the dough for ten to fifteen minutes, until it is
		smooth, firm, and quite elastic. Don't skimp on the kneading or the dough will
		tear while you're rolling it out.  You are now ready for
		the hard part: separate the dough into two pieces. Flour your work surface (the
		marble counter tops in Italian kitchens are ideal for this, though wood or
		Formica work as well -- a pastry cloth gets in the way) and start to roll out
		the dough, rolling from the middle, flipping it occasionally, and flouring it
		as necessary to keep it from sticking. To keep the sheet from breaking, once it
		has reached a certain size, roll it up around the rolling pin and then invert
		the rolling pin; you can, as you are unrolling the sheet, gently stretch it by
		holding the unrolled part firm and pulling gently away with the rolling pin.
		Keep on flipping and rolling till you have a sheet that’s almost
		transparent -- as thin as a dime, or thinner, if you can manage it (the pasta
		will almost double in thickness while cooking). The Emilians, acknowledged
		masters of home-made pasta, say your backside should work up a sweat as you're
		rolling out the sheet.  Once you've rolled out the sheet, either use it to make stuffed pasta
		such as ravioli or tortellini, for
		lasagna, or cut it into strips. If you
		choose the latter course the easiest thing to do is roll the sheet of dough up
		into a tube, then slice the tube into rounds of the desired width and unroll
		them so the strands come free; set them to dry on a rack or between two chair
		backs, supported by a towel (you often see this in the country). Roll out the
		second piece and cut it as you did the first.  Cook the pasta in salted, boiling water. Since it's fresh, it will cook
		in three to five minutes. Do not let it overcook! Soft wheat flour has much
		less gluten than the durum wheat used in commercially prepared dry pastas, and
		will consequently become flabby if it overcooks. Making pasta by hand does take effort and practice, and if you do it
		often you may want to invest in a pasta machine. There are two kinds: While pasta machines won't work for everything (tortelli di patate, for
		example, are made with thicker sheets of dough), they’re a big help.  Pasta need not be pale yellow or cream colored. If you add puréed
		vegetables, chocolate, or other ingredients to your dough you can obtain a wide
		range of delightful hues. One thing to keep in mind is that the addition of the
		vegetable will influence the texture of the dough, which will be less elastic
		and consequently more difficult to roll out. Also, that you may not succeed in
		getting the sheet quite as thin as you would a sheet made from just flour and
		eggs. Since the moisture content of the vegetables will vary from batch to
		batch, the quantity of flour is indicative. If the dough comes out overly moist
		and sticky, add more (you'll learn to judge how much you'll need with
		experience).  Finally, a couple of specific pasta shapes:  Cavatelli  These are
		Puglian. How to make them, and a tomato-and-ruchetta (arugola) sauce for
		them.  Orecchiette 
		So are these. How to make them, and several sauce suggestions.  What to do with the pasta once you have made it? Got more sites / recipes to suggest?
		Let me know! Buon Appetito!  Kyle Phillips  The Recipe Index   Photos mine.   

