Tortelli?No. They're a stuffed pasta that's more closely related to ravioli and such,
		and are the high point of many a country fair. According to a friend who owned
		a pasta factory, they must be made by hand to come out right, because the dough
		of the sheet is too thick for machines. It’s worth the effort.  Wash and peel the potatoes, quarter them, and steam them until done but
		firm (they shouldn’t be mushy).  Sauté the lard and the onions in a skillet until the onions are
		lightly browned.  Mash the potatoes (a potato ricer makes mashing easier) while
		they’re still hot. Put them mashed potatoes in a bowl and add the onion
		mixture, two tablespoons of grated cheese, the eggs, and a pinch of salt and
		pepper. Mix well and let cool.  Meanwhile, make a the pasta, using 1 1/4 pounds flour and four eggs:
		make a mound of the flour on your work surface, scoop a well into it, crack the
		eggs into it, and work them into the flour, together with a pinch of salt. If
		need be, add a few drops of water as well, but go easy. Knead the dough until
		it is smooth and elastic, about 15 minutes, then roll out two sheets about the
		thickness of a nickel. The sheets should be rectangular and about the same
		size.  Place, on one of the sheets, walnut-sized balls of filling about 1 1/2
		inches apart. Carefully lay the second sheet over the first and press the dough
		down between the balls of filling with your fingers so the pasta sticks well.
		Using a serrated pasta wheel, cut the dough to make square tortelli.  Boil the tortelli in salted water, removing them with a slotted spoon as
		they’re done (a minute after they rise to the surface) to a warm serving
		bowl, pour the melted butter and the remaining grated cheese over them, and
		serve.  Hint: If you happen to have some left over drippings from a roast,
		replace half the butter with them. You can also serve tortelli with meat sauce
		or tomato sauce, and grated cheese. Serve with a fairly hearty wine, for
		example Chianti Rufina.  Send a Card!   
