Recipes to add an Asian influence to your holiday celebrations and special events such as the Superbowl. Learn more about how the Chinese celebrate western holidays such as Christmas.

Wild Rice Stuffing

Turkey Stuffing Recipes - Made with goldenberries, this delicious turkey stuffing recipe is low in calories and suitable for vegetarian and vegan diets.

New Years Recipes

Whether you're celebrating on December 31st or during the Chinese New Year season, these recipes will lend a festive touch. (For a complete list of New Years resources, see my [link url/library/blnewyears.htm] Chinese New Years page.)

Top 10 Superbowl Recipes

The Superbowl is the time for tailgate parties, fun and food! Here are my top 10 appetizer recipes to serve for the Superbowl.

Valentine's Day

Everyone enjoys a day devoted to love. Learn about the history of Valentine's Day, and about China's romantic day.

Qi Qiao Jie (Chinese Valentine's Day) Celebrations

Learn how Asians celebrate the romantic tale of star-crossed lovers Niu Lang and Zhi Nu

Chocolate Fondue With Asian Fruit Dippers

The perfect romantic recipe for Valentine's Day - luscious Asian fruit dipped in a bath of warm chocolate.

St. Patrick's Day

St. Patrick's Day and the birthday of Avalokiteshvara: history and information, resources, and recipes

Health Benefits of Chocolate

Information and resources pertaining to the health benefits of chocolate, along with the popularity of chocolate in China and Asia.

Spring Recipes

Spring recipes - From Chinese coleslaw to stir-fried broccoli, recipes to help you take advantage of the Spring harvest.

Green Recipes for St. Patrick's Day

From cookies to cake, it's customary to serve green foods on St. Patrick's Day, in honor of the Emerald Isle. There is no rule that you must forego Chinese food in order to celebrate this Irish holiday honoring Ireland's most famous Saint. Here are my favorite green Chinese foods to celebrate St.Patrick's Day.

Easter Ham

A smoky ham, seasoned with Asian ingredients, is perfect for Easter celebrations.

What to Do With Leftover Ham?

If you've cooked a large ham for Easter or another family gathering, you'll probably going to have leftovers. Here are easy Chinese recipes are a great way to use up leftover cooked ham.



Chinese and Asian Inspired Recipes for Easter

From fluffy scrambled eggs to roast pork, these recipes are perfect for Easter brunch and dinner.

Gone Grilling

From grilled Oriental burgers to Chinese potato salad, recipes to liven up your summer outdoor gatherings.

Mother's Day Recipes

Mother's Day recipes - One time-honored Mother's Day tradition is to take over the kitchen for day so that Mom doesn't have to do any cooking. From Tangy Sweet and Sour Chicken to Spareribs With Black Bean Sauce, these recipes will show Mom how much you love and appreciate her.

Super Summer Menu - Cool Recipes for Hot Days

From Chinese salad to mango ice cream, refreshing recipes to help you cool down on hot summer days.

Summer Recipes and Features

Whether it's mango dishes or information about the Dragon Boat Festival, certain features are more popular during the summer. Here is a one-stop index of my most popular Chinese summer recipes and features.

Five Spice Muffins

Five Spice muffins - these muffins are filled with pumpkin, sour cream, pecans and five spice powder.

Chinese Picnic Menu

Everyone loves a picnic. Here is a Chinese picnic menu, with recipes for egg rolls, spareribs and more.

Mashed Potato Salad

Mashed Potato salad - Chinese vegetables and seasonings lend a different flavor to this potato salad recipe made with mashed potatoes.

Picnic Side Dishes

From salad rolls to a Chinese version of potato salad, these side dishes will help liven up your next picnic, barbecue, or other outdoor gathering. Several of the recipes call for<a href=http://chinesefood.about.com/cs/sauces/a/ricevinegar.htm>rice vinegar</a>- this can be found at Chinese/Asian groceries or in the international or ethnic food section of many supermarkets.

Halloween Handouts

A trip to the Asian candy store will give lots of ideas for treating the ghosts and goblins that gather on your doorstep. This article from your Guide includes photos.

Thanksgiving

Whether you want to add an Asian influence to your Thanksgiving meal, or are looking for creative ideas for leftovers, you'll find lots of recipes here, along with the original Thanksgiving Proclamation of 1676. From your Guide.

Chinese Roast Turkey Recipe

Turkey is coated with Asian seasonings and roasted in this Thanksgiving Day recipe.

Candied Sweet Potatoes

Candied Sweet Potatoes - Honey and Chinese five-spice powder adds an extra kick to this candied sweet potatoes recipe.

Oriental Rotisserie-Style Turkey Breast Recipe

Five-spice powder adds extra flavor to this low-carb recipe made with lean turkey breast.

Turkey Chow Mein Recipe - Leftover Turkey Recipes

Chow mein is a great way to serve turkey leftovers from either Thanksgiving or Christmas dinner.

Bang Bang Turkey Recipe

Here is a different idea for turkey dinner - a stir-fry with the same sauce used in Szechuan bang bang chicken.

Leftover Turkey Recipes

Tired of turkey sandwiches? Try these Asian dishes, from Turkey and Pineapple Curry to grilled pizza.

Christmas

My complete index of Christmas resources, including recipes, gift ideas, and an article on how Asians celebrate Christmas.

Chinese Christmas Celebrations

Find out how the Chinese and Asian Americans celebrate the Christmas season.

Christmas Stocking Stuffers

Gift ideas for the cook who loves Chinese food.

Chinese Cookies Recipes

Chinese cookies and holiday recipes - Chinese cookies, cakes and other food to celebrate Christmas and the holiday season.

Chinese Almond Cookies

Lighter and more delicately flavored than most cookies, the perfect treat to serve to the adults in your crowd at Christmas gatherings.

Chinese Walnut Cookies- Chinese Holiday Recipes

Toasted walnuts add extra flavor to these cookies made with walnuts and brown and white sugar.

Asian Smoothie Recipes

Nothing beats a smoothie on a hot summer day. Tropical fruits like mango and papaya are more readily available in summer, and are a great choice for smoothies. Here are my favorite Asian smoothie recipes: ?

Chinese and Asian Inspired Father's Day Recipes

Want to make Dad a nice dinner for Father's Day but need inspiration? From grilled chicken to spareribs to pepper steak, these Chinese and Asian-inspired recipes will help.

Chinese and Asian Tailgate Party Recipes

Time for a tailgate party! - From potstickers to hoisin chicken wings, these Chinese and Asian inspired recipes will be a hit at any tailgate party.