Breakfast Smoothie RecipeThis breakfast smoothie recipe is a great way to start the day. This healthy breakfast smoothie recipe is made with blueberries, strawberries, yogurt, orange juice and wheat germ. Butternut Squash Smoothies - Vegetable Smoothies - Butternut Squash RecipesVegetable smoothies aren't nearly as popular as fruit smoothies, probably because they aren't as sweet. But this butternut squash smoothie is sweet and tasty, thanks to the addition of pineapple, orange juice, honey and vanilla yogurt. Carrot Cake Smoothies - Vegetable SmoothiesVegetable smoothies can be just as sweet and tasty as fruit smoothies. These carrot cake smoothies are a great example. Bursting with carrots, pineapple and yogurt, these carrot smoothies make a great breakfast, snack, or dessert! Green SmoothieThis green smoothie recipe balances the slightly bitter taste of kale with sweet pineapple chunks and pineapple juice. When I serve this green smoothie to kids, I call it an emerald smoothie instead of a green smoothie recipe. Green Smoothie RecipeThis green smoothie recipe is a super healthy mix of baby spinach, grapes and pineapple, plus a secret ingredient that makes this green smoothie recipe a favorite with kids. Green SmoothiesGreen smoothies are a great way for kids to get the nutrition they need. These green smoothies are made with spinach, but they have banana, pineapple, yogurt and honey to add sweetness. Juice vs. Smoothies - Which is Better for You?Which are better for you - juices or smoothies? This article discusses the health benefits of juicing, whole juices and smoothies. Key Lime Smoothie RecipeThis key lime smoothie recipe is like a slice of key lime pie in a cool and refreshing drink. Frosty and fruity, this key lime smoothie is as healthy as it is tasty. Pumpkin SmoothiesPumpkin smoothies taste like pumpkin pie in a glass! Smoothie Recipe of the Day E-Course Day 1Smoothies and fresh natural juices have become popular lately, especially with the advent of powerful smoothie blenders. Which is better for you? Smoothie Recipe of the Day E-Course Day 3The basic smoothie recipe gives you a formula for making smoothie recipes of all kinds. Use this basic smoothie recipe and change each ingredient to suit your mood and taste buds. Smoothie Recipe of the Day EcourseThis Smoothie Recipe of the Day ecourse will reveal a new smoothie recipe every day for the next 12 days. Healthy and sweet, these smoothie recipes are designed to appeal to both kids and adults. Smoothie RecipesThese fruit smoothies are healthy and easy to make. Kids love making these fruit smoothies as much as drinking them! Sweet Potato Souffle SmoothiesFew smoothie recipes start with vegetables. And even fewer vegetable smoothies taste good enough for kids to want to eat. This sweet potato souffle smoothie is the exception. It's like an icy sweet potato souffle in a glass. Top 10 Healthy Smoothie RecipesThese smoothie recipes are consistently rated as kids' favorites. From strawberry smoothies to chocolate banana smoothies to healthy green smoothies, there's a smoothie recipe here for everyone. What is a Smoothie?Here is the definition of a smoothie plus some tips on how to make a fruit or vegetable smoothie. Breakfast SmoothiesWith these breakfast smoothies, you can get your day started on the right foot, with an icy, sweet drink that is full of vitamins and minerals. These smoothies are a great way to get picky eaters to eat more fruits and vegetables. All About SmoothiesDiscover what makes fruit smoothies healthy, the basic formula for how to make a smoothie and healthy smoothie recipes the kids will love. It's all right here.