Moving in another legislatory direction, last week I attended a
		conference on Lardo di Colonnata, the cured lard that Colonnata's quarrymen
		have been using as sandwich meat for thousands of years. Before you get queasy,
		a little history: People have known about Carrara's white marble since
		Pre-Roman times, and have been extracting it since they discovered it. In the
		days before mechanized transportation most people went on foot, so having the
		town as close to the workplace as possible was important, and the Roman
		quarrymen (for the most part slaves) founded Colonnata on a ridge between two
		quarries. Steep forested hills where they could gather chestnuts, acorns, and
		such, but not much in the way of arable land, nor a place where one could
		easily raise goats, sheep, or cattle. But pigs do very well with acorns and
		chestnuts, so every family had at least one, which they would butcher in the
		winter. The meat, of course, got eaten, but pigs also have lots of lard, and
		the townspeople discovered they could cure in their cellars it if they put it
		in marble tubs, covering it with salt and herbs (garlic, rosemary, peppercorns,
		anise, and other things): The salt draws the water out of the fat, forming a
		brine, and in its dehydrated state the fat is much more receptive to the oils
		in the herbs, which flow into it and flavor it over a period of several months.
		The production technique guarantied a safe food because the salt tied up all
		the water, making it impossible for any form of bacteria to grow, the herbs and
		spices made it amazingly delicate and flavorful, and the calories made it
		perfect for the men to take into the quarries. People were already writing
		admiringly of it in the mid-1800s, and since then its renown has grown
		tremendously.  It has even become a tourist attraction, with people driving up to
		Colonnata to taste it, and though this has been very good for the town, helping
		to compensate for the loss of employment that followed the mechanization of the
		quarries, it has had a negative impact on the lard: Production is low, with 11
		families making less than a ton a year, and though the producers are trying to
		increase it some, they can only make so much in the space they have. But demand
		is very high, and as a result people from elsewhere began salting lard and
		selling it as Lardo di Colonnata. But it wasn't: the tubs they were using were
		different, and so was the air -- there's something about the air currents
		around Colonnata that imparts unique flavors. Rubbish, some might think, but
		one of the Colonnata producers tried taking one of her tubs to the neighboring
		town and what came out of it didn't taste like the rest of the lard she had in
		her cellar. Things came to a head in 1996 with many arrests for fraud; at
		present the producers, who have formed an association, are waiting for official
		recognition of their product (something called DOP, Denominazione di Origine
		Protetta, which states where and how a product can be made) from the
		authorities. Once that's in place, all Lardo di Colonnata will really be from
		Colonnata (now you have to read the fine print). Problem is, though the DOP
		should have been granted quickly, those who are making Lardo outside what will
		be the DOP area have been fighting it, under the theory that it's easier to
		make Lardo di Colonnata, which has a name, even if you're really in Garfagnana,
		than it is to establish a name for Lardo di Garfagnana. And though this is true
		in the short run, it's also short sighted, because consumers will read the fine
		print about where the product is made and pay more for what comes from the
		source than for what's made elsewhere -- better to have your own name,
		especially since a town that becomes famed for a specialty will attract
		tourists.  Getting there: Colonnata is inland of Carrara; you dive into the city,
		find signs for the town, and follow them, through a succession of quarries and
		marble stands until the road stops and you're there. There are several places
		that sell Lardo right on the square, and there's also a well known restaurant
		called Venanzio, closed Thursdays and Sunday nights, which you should make a
		reservation for on 0585 758062. Once you're done buying, or eating, there are
		beautiful views into the quarries, and pretty winding streets to explore.  The second major problem to beset Lardo di Colonnata is the EEU health
		service: when the inspectors came to look, they were horrified. No tiled
		industrial halls, but rather people's cellars (some with dirt floors), no
		easily sterilized steel tanks to hold the lard, but rather marble tubs (many
		stained by decades of use), no climate control, but rather fresh mountain
		air It was unsanitary! No matter that the brine makes
		bacteriological contamination impossible, no matter that people have been
		curing the lard this way for thousands of years. The EEU ordered
		production be halted until the proper practices of the sort one might find in a
		pristine industrial plant could be implemented. Since one couldn't build an
		industrial plant in Colonnata even if one wanted to for lack of space, this was
		a death knell for Lardo. Fortunately for us, the people of Colonnata have been
		wrestling marble blocks for millennia (read
		about the lizzatura, how they used to bring marble down from the quarries)
		and were quite willing to wrestle the EEU as well; they went before the health
		commissioners and argued four points, while all the other lesser artisanal
		productions of Europe looked on:  It was probably point d that swayed the commission, which has now
		decreed that Lardo di Colonnata can be made following the traditional
		techniques, and in the wake of the decision many other producers of artisanal
		foods have stepped up to the plate. The tide of regulation continues to
		advance, but a breakwater has been erected to shelter traditional food
		production and the ways of life associated with it, thanks to the efforts of a
		bunch of quarrymen from Colonnata. Now, if only the Tuscan regional Government
		would approve the DOP  Should you buy some Lardo di Colonnata, what to do with it? Slice it
		very thinly and serve it on warm slices of toasted bread as an antipasto. There
		are other fancier pates and spreads, but I find this to be the most satisfying
		use. Or use it in the kitchen: Finely sliced, and tied over a drier meat, for
		example pheasant or turkey breast, or even a lean boned pork loin. Saves
		basting and adds a delightful touch.  A presto,Kyle Phillips Webweaver, About Italian Cuisine  Thoughts on Italian foodOn Italian wineOn
		living in ItalySend a card from the
		Italian Cuisine Post Office, or browse the photos! 
