Help with preparing Chinese food, from stir-frying tips to general information on ingredients and sources for purchasing Chinese food online.

A Taste of the Orient

My first article writing as an About Guide looks at the philosophy behind Chinese cooking.

Five Elements Theory in Chinese Cooking

What is the five elements theory and what role does it play in Chinese cuisine?

 

 Yin and Yang in Chinese Cooking

The philosophy of yin and yang permeates Chinese culture, but what role does it play in food?

Basic Tips

 Twenty handy tips to keep near the stove when you're preparing Chinese food. 

 

 Beginner's Guide

 An index of resources to make Chinese cooking easier for the beginner, including cooking methods, tips, FAQ's and choosing a cooking class. 

 

 Chinese Cooking 101 - The Quiz

 Test your cooking skills in this fun interactive quiz.

 

 Cooking Tips - Deep-Frying

 Tips to make deep-frying easier and lower the fat content. A shortened, one page version of my article Ten Tips for Deep-Frying. 

 

 Cooking Tips - Stir-frying

 Twenty tips to help take the mystery out of stir-frying, along with a discussion of cooking temperatures. A handy, shortened version of my article Twenty Tips for Stir-Frying . 

 

 Egg Drop Soup

 Tips for pouring the beaten egg into Egg Drop Soup, along with recipes for Egg Drop Soup and variations.

Egg Roll Energizers

 Tips for making egg rolls that are neither too soggy or too dry, along with a recipe.

How to Cook Rice

 Step by step instructions for boiling rice. You'll find a longer article on cooking rice that includes recipes for Yangzhou (Yangchow) and Sun Ya Fried Rice .

 

 Rice Revitalizers

More tips on cooking rice that is fluffy and doesn't stick to the bottom of the pan.

 

 How to Cook Noodles

 A table of instructions and cooking times for different types of noodles used in Asian cooking.

More How To's....

Handy step-by-step instructions on everything from shredding meat to making five-spice powder.

Photo How To's....

A growing directory of step-by-step instructions complete with photos.

Quick and Easy 

 Tips for preparing Chinese food on those busy weeknights.

 

 Temperature Conversions

 Not sure which mark to use on your gas stove, or what temperature is equivalent to "moderate heat?" This handy table will help.

Do I Need a wok?

Do you really need a wok to cook Chinese food? Also, information on purchasing and caring for your wok.

How to Season a Carbon Steel Wok 

Step-by-step instructions on how to season your wok once you get it home from the store.

How to Clean a Carbon Steel Wok 

 Step-by-step instructions that will help your wok last longer.

 

 Out of the Frying Pan

 If you decide to use a frying pan, here are tips on how to make sure it is "stir-fry friendly."

Why Waste a Wok? 

Don't think a wok has to remain in the cupboard when you're not cooking Chinese food.

Stocking the Pantry - What Do I Buy First? 

Before you splurge on expensive equipment and exotic ingredients, find out what you really need to begin cooking Chinese meals.

 

 Best Brands

My recommendations on brand names, along with information for purchasing them online where possible. 

 

 Culinary Dictionary 

An ever growing resource with descriptions of Asian ingredients (including alternative names) and cooking terms.

Ingredients

 A more in depth look at specific ingredients: two examples are Sweet and Sour Sauce and What Makes Hot Mustard Hot?

Ingredient Substitutions

 Run out of a specific ingredient? You'll find substitutions here for everything from agar-agar to water chestnuts.

Photo Gallery

My collection of photos of Chinese dishes, ingredients and cooking equipment. 

 

 For more cooking advice, check out my bookstore with cookbooks, reviews and sample recipes. 

 

 Return to Chinese Cuisine 101: The Tour

 Return to Main Topic Menu Index