Day old bread is a great choice for this recipe. This French toast can be made ahead and frozen in individual portions. Take the slices out of the freezer and pop them in the toaster for a great busy morning breakfast.

This delicious French toast is made with a little cinnamon in the egg mixture. Use your favorite thick sliced bread in this recipe. I used a sourdough bread, and it was fabulous. Have plenty of butter and maple syrup at the table. Feel free to garnish this French toast with berries or fruit slices, or use other table syrups.

Combine the eggs, milk, cinnamon, vanilla, and salt in a bowl. Whisk until thoroughly blended. Dip bread slices in the egg mixture, turning to coat both sides. Take your time soaking the bread so the slices have time to absorb the mixture.

Melt butter in a large skillet or griddle over medium heat, or spray with nonstick cooking spray. When the pan is hot, cook the French toast in batches. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes on each side, until nicely browned.

If desired, dust with a little powdered sugar before serving.

Serve with plenty of butter and maple syrup, of a flavored or fruity syrup of your choice. Garnish the French toast with sliced fruit or berries, if desired.

Tip: Make this French toast ahead of time and freeze individual slices in small food storage bags. When you're in a hurry, pop a slice in the toaster and toast until hot. Top with butter and syrup, and enjoy!

Related French Toast Recipes

Perfect French Toast

 This basic French toast recipe makes 4 servings. This is wonderful with thick slices of bread, such as "Texas Toast." Or, use a brioche style bread or Italian or French bread, and be sure to provide lots of butter and your favorite syrups.

Baked French Toast With Blueberries

 This overnight French toast is made with cinnamon and dried blueberries, along with the thick bread slices and brown sugar. Just prepare the dish the night before and pop it in the oven in the morning.

Easy French Toast Sticks

 Kids love these French toast sticks. They're made with a little vanilla in the batter and a sprinkling of cinnamon sugar.

Blueberry French Toast Casserole

 Fresh or frozen blueberries and cream cheese highlight this rich and delicious French toast bake, along with a delicious blueberry sauce.