These great tasting Swedish meatballs are a family favorite. We like them with mashed potatoes, but cooked noodles or rice would be excellent. I like the mixture of beef and pork in these meatballs, but you could use all beef or a mixture of beef and veal.

Combine the bread crumbs and the milk in a small bowl; stir to blend. Set aside.

Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add the finely chopped onion and saute, stirring frequently, until softened, about 4 to 6 minutes.

In a large bowl, combine the ground beef and pork, the bread crumb mixture, sauteed onion, honey, egg, salt and pepper, and the spices. Mix with your hands until well blended.

In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the 3 tablespoons of butter. Cook the meatballs, turning to brown all sides, for about 10 minutes or until the meatballs are browned and cooked through. According to USDA, ground beef and pork must be cooked to at least 165deg on a food thermometer.

Transfer the meatballs to an ovensafe pan, cover with foil and keep warm in a warming drawer or oven at 200deg.

In the same large skillet, stir the flour into the drippings, adding a little more butter if necessary. Cook, stirring, for about 2 minutes. Whisk in the beef stock and continue cooking, whisking, until thickened. Stir in the heavy cream and cook, stirring, for a minute longer, or until thickened as desired.

Arrange the meatballs in a serving dish and spoon sauce over them. Sprinkle with chopped fresh parsley, if desired.

Serve these meatballs with mashed potatoes or hot cooked noodles.

You might also like these recipes:

Baked Meatballs

 This is an easy way to cook the meatballs. No turning or splatter, and it frees you up to make the sauce or tend to other things. These basic meatballs are very good for a spaghetti sauce, but seasonings could be varied for other dishes.

Sweet and Sour Meatballs

 These meatballs, cooked with preserves and Asian style seasonings, are delicious with rice. They would make great appetizer meatballs as well.

Maria's Italian Meatballs

 These popular, top-rated meatballs are excellent for spaghetti and meatballs.