Pasta Salad With Black Beans

Black beans and vegetables, along with cilantro and flavorful dressing make this pasta salad delicious. Make this pasta salad with macaroni or a similar tubular pasta, and serve at your next cookout or potluck.

BLT Macaroni Salad

Looking for a delicious pasta salad for a summer lunch or cool supper? This BLT macaroni salad with bacon and mayonnaise is easy and flavorful, served on lettuce and sliced tomatoes.

Broccoli and Orzo Salad

This orzo and broccoli salad gets a lot of flavor from the chopped olives and a little garlic. Use a good quality red wine vinegar in this recipe. This is a tasty salad for a cookout or any spring or summer meal. It's perfect for a potluck dinner, too!

Tuna Macaroni Salad

This is a flavorful macaroni salad, one of my all-time favorites! This would be a great dish to take to a potluck, or have it on hand for summer lunches. This macaroni salad also makes a delicious side salad with burgers or grilled meat or chicken.

Terri's Macaroni Salad

This salad is an all time favorite, and the traditional version included here will not disappoint anyone--either by omission or addition!

Macaroni Salad With Ham and Eggs

This macaroni salad is hearty enough for a hot summer day's lunch or dinner, or take it along to a cookout or potluck. Add more ham and some shredded cheese if you plan on making this part of a no-cook meal.

Pasta Salad With Chicken and Bacon

Bacon adds a delicious, smoky flavor to this pasta salad, along with diced tomatoes, celery, and onion. I used mini penne pasta in this recipe, but macaroni or similar pasta shapes would work as well. Make this tasty pasta salad for your next family cookout or take it along to a potluck dinner.

Pasta Salad With Ham

This is a pasta salad made with ham and mayonnaise, along with garlic, chopped onion, basil, and more. This pasta salad makes a nice lunch, or serve it along with a cookout or summer meal.

Pasta Salad With Herbs

This pasta salad is made with mayonnaise, fresh herbs, and tomatoes. An easy pasta salad - photo with a link to the recipe.

Tuna Macaroni Salad

A macaroni salad recipe with tuna, green bell pepper, onion, celery, and mayonnaise. This salad is easy and always a hit.

Tuna Pasta Salad With Dill

This is a tasty pasta salad, perfect for an everyday lunch with soup, or serve it as a side dish at a cookout. A delicious tuna and pasta salad recipe with dill and mayonnaise.

Pasta Salad With Chicken and Spinach

A delicious chicken pasta salad, with garlic, bell pepper, spinach, and a mayonnaise dressing. A pasta salad recipe with chicken and spinach, along with a flavorful garlic lemon mayonnaise dressing.

Pasta Salad With Herbs

Enjoy this pasta salad recipe, made with mayonnaise and sour cream, along with chopped herbs and vegetables. This is a great tasting pasta salad to enjoy with a cup of soup or a sandwich for lunch, or serve it with grilled meat or chicken for a quick and easy summer supper.

Pasta Salad With Peas and Ham

This flavorful pasta salad contains diced ham and peas, along with mayonnaise and other ingredients. If you're looking for a hearty pasta salad, this recipe is a great choice.

Tasty Tuna and Macaroni Salad

A pasta salad with macaroni, mandarin orange sections, tuna, and sweet onions, along with lettuce. It's a fresh and easy and great tasting salad for any occasion.

Salmon Pasta Salad Recipe

This salmon salad is made with cooked spaghetti, chopped fresh vegetables, and seasonings. This is a nicely seasoned salad to prepare for a cookout or hot weather supper.

Macaroni or Potato Salad Dressing

This is a dressing for macaroni or potato salad. Add your own favorite chopped vegetables or a few chopped hard-cooked eggs to this recipe.

Macaroni Salad With Ham and Cheese

This is a recipe for macaroni salad with ham and cheese, along with mayonnaise or salad dressing, pineapple, and other ingredients.

Creole Macaroni Salad

A Creole style macaroni salad, with the addition of stuffed olives, chopped tomatoes, shredded cheese, and onions, along with garlic, and pepper.

Classic Macaroni Salad

A classic macaroni salad recipe, made with chopped vegetables and mayonnaise, along with seasonings and hard cooked eggs. It's a tasty, delicious salad for any occasion.

Tuna Macaroni Salad

Pasta salad with tuna and macaroni, along with mayonnaise and vegetables. A tuna macaroni salad recipe.

Macaroni and Ham Salad

Recipe for macaroni salad with ham, tomatoes, and peas and mayonnaise, a pasta salad recipe.

Shrimp and Macaroni Salad

Here's a great tasting shrimp salad with macaroni and green onions and tomatoes.

Macaroni Salad with Cheese and Ham

This macaroni salad is made with ham, cheddar cheese, mayonnaise, green bell pepper, onion, and celery. A macaroni ham salad recipe with cheese and mayonnaise.

Macaroni Salad with Ham

This macaroni salad is made with macaroni, celery, ham, hard cooked eggs, dill pickle, and olives.

Hot Chicken and Macaroni Salad

This baked chicken salad recipe contains cooked chicken, macaroni, mayonnaise, Swiss cheese, and almonds.

Potluck Macaroni Salad

This great tasting macaroni salad is perfect for a potluck, or make it for a cookout or picnic. It's made with the addition of hard cooked eggs, cucumber, tomato wedges, and a tasty mayonnaise dressing.

Picnic Macaroni Salad With Ham

This macaroni salad recipe is made with cooked ham, Velveeta cheese, chopped sweet pickle, pineapple, onion, and a little curry powder and salad dressing.

Chicken and Macaroni Salad Bake

This hot baked chicken and macaroni salad recipe contains elbow macaroni, cooked chicken, almonds, lemon, mayonnaise, and Swiss cheese.

Chicken Pasta Salad With Cucumber

Cucumbers give this interesting and tasty chicken salad lots of flavor and crunch. It's a simple chicken and pasta salad made with macaroni, or use another pasta shape, such as shells, mini penne, or rotini.

Tuna Pasta Salad with Fettuccine

With fettuccine, garlic, basil, bell pepper, zucchini or summer squash, Swiss cheese, Italian dressing, and other vegetables and seasonings.

Garden Pasta Salad

Pesto and lemon juice help to flavor this great-tasting pasta salad. Add some diced ham or cooked chicken or turkey for a heartier supper salad.

Macaroni and Black Bean Salad

A macaroni salad with black beans, cilantro, tomatoes, cucumber, corn, and a flavorful mayonnaise, lime juice, and vinegar dressing. Seasonings for this macaroni salad include chili powder, cumin, salt, pepper, and garlic.