A variety of recipes for chicken salad, including hot chicken salad and sandwich spreads.

Curried Chicken Salad

This delicious curried chicken salad makes a wonderful lunch or sandwich supper. Serve this fabulous chicken salad on lettuce or in pita pockets or sandwich rolls.

Chicken Salad With Bacon and Raisins

My family was surprised when they found that they loved this flavorful, crunchy chicken salad! Raisins, bacon, celery, green onions, and optional pine nuts add to the great flavor and crunchy texture in this appetizing chicken salad recipe.

Chicken Salad Sandwich

Delicious chicken salad sandwiches make a great little sandwich for parties or make them for lunch and enjoy with sliced tomatoes or a cup of soup. Use a cooked chicken or purchased rotisserie chicken for this everyday chicken salad recipe.

Southern-Style Chicken Salad

Serve this delicious chicken salad in sandwiches with lettuce, pickle, and tomato slices, or pile it on lettuce for a delicious lunch.

Curried Chicken Salad

Delicious chicken salad with curry powder, for sandwiches, rolls, or luncheon salad. Apples, dried cranberries, walnuts, and curry powder jazz up this delicious chicken salad.

Favorite Chicken Salad

Here's a recipe for a tasty chicken salad made with mayonnaise, lemon juice, celery, red onion, and seasonings. This is an excellent chicken salad recipe for sandwiches.

Chicken Salad With Apples and Cranberries

This chicken salad is loaded with flavors, from the tangy dried cranberries and sweet apples to the crunchy walnuts and mayonnaise. Try this recipe for a nicely seasoned chicken salad with apples and cranberries.

Spicy Chicken and White Bean Salad

This is a spicy chicken salad with white beans and a dressing with cumin and chili powder. A chicken and white bean salad recipe.

Chicken Salad With Walnuts and Grapes

This is a tasty chicken salad with grapes and walnuts, along with other vegetables, mayonnaise, and sour cream. Try this chicken salad recipe and serve on lettuce with avocado, or use it for sandwiches.

Grilled Chicken and Portobello Mushroom Salad

Enjoy this recipe for a warm grilled chicken salad with greens, portobello mushrooms, sour cream dressing, and cheese. It's a well-seasoned and flavorful grilled chicken salad with an easy sour cream and mayonnaise dressing.

Chicken Salad With Pecans and Hard-Cooked Eggs

This flavorful salad includes lettuce, grilled or roasted chicken, cucumber, onion, olives, and hard-cooked eggs, along with pecan halves and a mustard dressing or your own favorite. This is a tasty, nicely seasoned salad for a hot summer day.

Grilled Chicken Salad

This grilled chicken salad recipe is made with chicken, tomatoes, hard-cooked eggs, and a lively Creole mustard vinaigrette. Serve this grilled chicken salad for a nice summer lunch or hot weather supper.

Fruited Chicken Salad Recipe

This recipe for a fruited chicken salad includes grapes and peaches. Fruited chicken salad recipe contains chopped peaches, grapes, sour cream, mayonnaise, and chicken.

Hot Chicken Salad Recipe

A hot chicken salad recipe, similar to a casserole, with diced cooked chicken, mayonnaise, and other ingredients. Enjoy this hot baked chicken salad for any meal, along with a salad or cooked peas or green beans.

Curried Chicken Salad With Diced Apples

This recipe for curried chicken salad includes cooked diced chicken, diced apple, peanuts, and mayonnaise, along with celery and seasonings. It's a well-seasoned, appetizing chicken salad, perfect for sandwiches or lighter lunch on lettuce leaves.

Chicken Salad With Bacon and Grapes

This tasty, uncomplicated chicken salad gets nice flavor from the bacon and grapes, while water chestnuts give it some crunch.

Chicken Pasta Salad With Cucumber

Cucumbers give this interesting and tasty chicken salad lots of flavor and crunch. It's a simple chicken and pasta salad made with macaroni, or use another pasta shape, such as shells, mini penne, or rotini.

Fruited Chicken Salad Recipe

This recipe for fruited chicken salad includes pineapple, raisins, and subtle spices. The mayonnaise and sour cream dressing complements this chicken salad perfectly.

Chicken Salad in Tomato Petals

This chicken salad recipe is the perfect salad for a summer luncheon. The salad is flavored with grapes and curry powder and served in tomatoes, sliced to resemble flowers.

Chicken Salad with Pineapple

This basic chicken and pineapple salad can be made with the addition of hard=cooked eggs, which are optional. It's an easy salad to prepare, and makes a tasty lunch with lettuce leaves and perhaps a few slices of avocado.

Luncheon Chicken Salad

This chicken salad is the perfect salad for a luncheon or hot summer dinner. The hard-cooked eggs give it nice flavor and texture, and a little lemon juice gives it a little zing.

Colorful Chicken Salad

This recipe for chicken salad gets color and flavor from the bell peppers, cucumbers, and hard-cooked eggs. Garnish this interesting salad with cherry tomatoes and fresh chopped parsley leaves.

Chicken and Rice Salad

This flavorful chicken and rice salad recipe makes a wonderful lunch dish for a hot summer day. Serve this tasty chicken salad on lettuce leaves or mixed greens and add a few slices of fresh tomatoes to the plate.

Curried Chicken Salad Recipe

A little sour cream in the mayonnaise dressing makes this chicken salad smooth and creamy, and the curry powder gives it some great flavor. Enjoy this salad as a sandwich filling or serve it on lettuce or mixed spring greens.

Fruited Chicken Salad Recipe

This is a fruited chicken salad recipe with pineapple, raisins, sour cream, mayonnaise, spices, and other ingredients. The sunflower seeds give this well-seasoned salad nice crunch.

Curried Chicken Salad Recipe

This easy curried chicken salad recipe is a good choice for a luncheon salad or sandwich filling. Serve on mixed greens or lettuce leaves, and garnish with optional almonds or pecans.

Baked Chicken Salad with Macaroni

This hot baked chicken and macaroni salad recipe contains elbow macaroni, cooked chicken, almonds, lemon, mayonnaise, and Swiss cheese.

Oven Chicken Salad

This oven chicken salad recipe is a baked chicken casserole with mayonnaise, chicken, and cheese, along with seasonings and bread crumbs for topping.

Cajun Chicken Salad with Pecans

A chicken salad that can be used in many ways, hot weather food, an easy-to-prepare picnic

Chicken Salad With Herb Mayonnaise

Fresh herbs and a little lemon give this chicken salad very special flavor. Try this lively, well-seasoned chicken salad recipe.

Chicken Salad With Herb Mayonnaise

Fresh herbs give this chicken salada very special flavor. Delicious chicken salad with a little lemon and herb mayonnaise.

Chicken Salad Recipes

These chicken salad recipes make delicious sandwiches, or serve as luncheon salads or on small buns or rolls as party appetizers.