This case does not have any aliens, but it does have an unknown flying object, and over 2 hours of missing time. It also has physical ills, and the discovery of a triangle-shaped mark on the abductee's chest, followed by a visit to a doctor. It seems that although many abduction cases have similar characteristics, each has its own peculiarities. Many will have the UFO, aliens, medical tests, missing time, and physical scars or even implanted objects. See some of the best-known cases of abduction at The Betty and Barney Hill Abduction, The Pascagoula, Mississippi Abductions, The Travis Walton Abduction, and the Allagash Abduction. MUFON's Mary Zimmer reports, On August 2, 2005, the witness called, saying that he had just awakened and was very, very thirsty even after drinking several bottles of water and wanted to tell me about what happened to him. He said that at 1 AM, he watched about ten minutes of the news broadcast and had an overwhelming urge to go out into the back yard. He saw an orange light above the retention pond in back of his yard. Same UFO Seen Before He said that the object that he saw was the same one that he saw over the Gulf, but it was straight across, not tilted and about 200 to 300 feet in the air. It was like a straight bar and pointed at the end, but it may have been a disk. The surface was orange, pulsating, beautiful, flowing like water. There were three squares, then a space and then three more squares. It looked so large that he estimated that it could be covered by "a blanket unfolded." He saw it for about 45 seconds and then it completely vanished. The night was silent with even the crickets not making noise. He found it hard to get back inside the house. Missing Time Established He made some noise coming back, but did not awaken the others in his house. He called me at 3:52 A.M., but "thought it was earlier," about 1:20 A.M. There was missing time of two hours and forty-two minutes, during which apparently an abduction took place. Thomas became very thirsty after this, drinking four or five 16 oz. bottles of water at once. He later suffered from vomiting, diarrhea and inability to urinate. None of his neighbors had seen the object. A Visit to the Doctor On August 4, he noticed a slight burning sensation on his chest and discovered a small red triangle just below the skin. His doctor didn't know what it was, but didn't think it was anything to worry about. The doctor did find that his Triglycerides were dangerously high, 410, (normal 40 to 200) and said that he could be at risk for a stroke or heart attack. The doctor also found that his Electrolytes were extremely low, and advised him to drink PediaLite and to eat only fruit and vegetables. The family had gone to Cape Canaveral to see the space shuttle return. At a lunch with the astronauts, Thomas' niece asked about drinking Tang. The astronaut said that they no longer drank it, but used a different formula because they had found that weightlessness caused a decrease of electrolytes in the human body. This may be significant to Thomas because his electrolytes were very low after an apparent abduction. The witness was fearful of a little girl with dark eyes in the doctor's waiting room, because her eyes made him afraid as did people who wore sun glasses. A forensic scientific approach should be a key part of our investigative arsenal in examining abduction cases. Thanks to MM Zimmer and MUFON Case Management System.