
I recently had the opportunity to interview Betty's daughter Becky, and our readers responded so positively to her information and insight. Now I am honored to have the occasion to glean important information from Betty.  
"In the city of South Ashburnham, Massachusetts on the night of January 25 1967, one of the most celebrated cases of UFO abduction began. Betty Andreasson was working in her kitchen while her seven children, mother, and father were in the living room.  Shortly after 6:30, the lights in the house briefly blinked. Immediately thereafter, a reddish light began to beam through the kitchen window. The sudden darkness in the house set the kids nerves on edge, and Betty ran to comfort them. Her father ran into the kitchen to peer out the window, and find the source of the unusual light. To his utter shock, he saw five odd-looking beings coming toward the house with a hopping motion!" So it began, almost 40 years ago, and now my interview with Betty...  
B J: I want to start off by saying it is a pleasure to have the opportunity to ask a few questions of you, Betty. The answers will be very important to those of us who study the abduction phenomena. The most widely known event in your history is the 1967 abduction. Had abductions been happening before this time?  
Betty: Yes, there were much earlier encounters. However, the only conscious recollection of a peculiar experience, before undergoing regressive hypnosis, was an incident in 1950. It was day, heading up the hill near the barn, when I glanced toward the sky and saw what looked like the moon, but it was getting bigger and bigger and seemed to be coming toward me. Then, many years later during the ongoing investigation of my UFO case, the memories of being taken aboard that moon-like craft emerged. I was transported to an area, entered the world of Light to see the One. Before returning home, small, large-headed, dark-eyed, Beings transplanted something in my head. Which was later thought to be a bee-bee like tracking device. This object was retrieved through my nose in 1967, by grey Beings while aboard their craft. Two other childhood experiences occurred in 1944, and 1949. These were brief and I was not taken anywhere.  
B J: During the celebrated abduction in Massachusetts in 1967, most researchers indicate that your father was the first person to actually see the alien beings. What was his initial reaction?  
Betty: We all saw and experienced the power go out, the pulsing reddish orange lights flashing at the pantry window, and the silence. My mother and the children were rushed into the parlor, but my father, unknown to me at the time had passed us to check what was happening outside. Yes, he was the first to view grey Beings in a hopping like motion coming down the small hill to the porch. He thought they were kids dressed in Halloween spacemen costumes, and looked freaky to him...  
B J: The beings are described as "odd looking." Can you describe them further for us, and did anyone beside your father see the "hopping" motion?  
Betty: The Beings were small. Were three to five feet tall, had very large, pear shaped heads, with grey skin, large dark, almond shaped eyes, tiny holes for nose, and ears, slit like mouth, very little neck. They had a body, legs with boots, arms, and hands with only three fingers. They wore a blue tight fitting suit, with a belt and body strap across their chest. An eagle insignia was on their upper arm. They gave off a feeling of peace, communicated through mental telepathy, and levitated in a smooth fashion as they moved. No, my father was the only one that saw them in a hopping type walk. However, we did not walk up the stairs when we entered the craft. We hopped past the stairs as we went inside.  
B J: Becky has told me that she does not recall actually being in a "suspended" state, but does remember seeing the other family members in this state. Was this also true for you?  
Betty: No, I remember. When the Beings were in the parlor for the exchange of books, yes, I saw my whole family in a state of suspended animation, and was very concerned. I'm sure the Beings read my mind, knew my apprehension, and decided to briefly take Becky out of the suspension to quell my fears, and show me my family was alright. That was when Becky, ( unknown to me at that time, had already been going through symbolic training at a much younger age) was allowed to see the Beings and thin blue book exchange take place.  

