1. Some people still wonder if there are Aliens in the universe. How do you respond to this statement? Do you think that there are still many people who don't believe on Alien? Reply - Whether or not aliens really exist is a hotly debated topic. The many reports of not only alien abductions, but also close encounters with aliens, tell us that they do exist. However, mainstream science will tell you that these accounts are only stories, and there is no definitive proof there are aliens in the universe. 2. Do you think that UFOs and alien entities will appear in the earth one day and communicate with human beings? Is there any scientific basis toward this statement? Reply - I and many other researchers believe that not only will aliens make an overt appearance, but have already communicated with world governments privately. The best proof that this will happen is the fact that early civilizations have paintings, cave drawings, and etchings that show visitors from space have already interacted with mankind in an earlier time. 3. If UFOs appear, is there any research telling us how to communicate with them? Do human beings really need someone who is in charge of this job? Reply - There is research being done as to how to communicate with alien beings, such as SETI, and other privately funded programs. This is being done strictly from a theoretical standpoint. There is a contact protocol to follow maintained by many governments, and it is my belief that someone has to head this effort, we need one voice to communicate with them. 4. Can you share your opinions toward how do human beings communicate with alien entities? Reply - I would imagine that at first the communication would be from aliens communicating with us by telepathy. It is obvious from previous personal accounts that this is how they communicate with humans initially. However, I'm sure very quickly, there would be some form of symbolic or language worked out to make communication a more simple process for humans. 5. Malaysia's first astrophysicist was rumored to be appointed the leading official in ET contact, although it is already known as erroneous. How do you think about it? Who is the most suitable people to do that? What capabilites does he or she need? Reply - It is strange to me that this false information was released. Nonetheless, I know there are many citizens of the world that could fill this position. The most important thing is that the person would have to have all of the countries' interest in mind, and communicate for all of us, not just one country. 6. Recently, there have been Aliens appear in Argentina's TV news. What do you think about it? Approximately how many of these kinds of cases happen in one year? Can you share some interesting UFO cases with us? Do you think there is good evidence to prove that there are entities in the universe? Reply - First of all, Argentina is no different that many other countries. Now and then, approximately 3-4 times per year, you hear an account of alien contact. These cases are often kept under wraps for a time, and the details can be sketchy. A full investigation is required to determine whether or not the case in point has any validity. It is possible that one case could be a major breakthrough. There are a number of cases that are excellent in proving the existence of alien beings... 1961 Betty and Barney Hill Abduction, 1973 Pascagoula, Mississippi, Abduction (Parker, Hickson), 1975 The Travis Walton Abduction, 1976 The Allagash Abductions, and the 1976 The Dechmont Forest Abduction, just to name a few. 7. How can we verify that the entities that were seen were UFOs or Alien, not a hallucination? Reply - In many cases, there is not an easy answer. But, in the best cases, there are usually other witnesses to the event, physical traces left behind, and details derived from regressive hypnosis. 8. From your expectation, what will happen if UFOs/Aliens come to earth one day. Is it good or bad for human beings? Will they destroy the earth? Reply - I wish I had a definite answer to this. This is the question that mankind needs to consider. Are we dealing with good or evil aliens? In our best wishful thinking, we want a visiting civilization to be benevolent, however, there is the possibility that we might make contact with warring group of aliens. 9. What benefit do we gain from doing UFO research? Reply - We have learned many things from this research. One of the most important has been new developments of technology derived from reverse engineering of captured or downed alien craft. Secondly, the possibility of contact with an alien race has made us enlarge our view of the universe we live in. Humans occupy only a small piece of the vastness of space.