Famed UFO investigator, Dr. J. Allen Hynek, coined the phrase 'close encounters, and it has become a standard term in Ufology. If you did not see it, check out a recent article we posted: Two Accounts of Close Encounters on Same Date, Different Locations. A close encounter, according to Dr. Hynek's explanation, is a relatively close sighting (within 200 yards). 1. Close Encounters of the First Kind (CE-I). Though the witness observes a UFO nearby, there appears to be no interaction with either the witness or the environment. 2. Close Encounters of the Second Kind (CE-II). These encounters include details of interaction between the UFO and the environment which may vary from interference with car ignition systems and electronic gear to imprints or burns on the ground and physical effects on plants, animals and humans. 3. Close Encounters of the Third Kind (CE-III). In this category, occupants of a UFO - entities that are human-like ("humanoid") or not humanlike in appearance - have been reported. There is usually no direct contact or communication with the witness. 4. Close Encounters of the Fourth Kind (CE-IV). This category has only recently been created, and is one step beyond Hynek's "Third Kind." This category deals with alien abduction, and/or direct communication with an alien being. Also see: 1980 - The Cash-Landrum Piney Woods Encounter, Triangle Close Encounters, and let's not forget the movie, Close Encounters of the Third Kind. A Close Encounter in New Zealand On July 13, 1959 in Blenheim, New Zealand, Mrs. Moreland saw a sharply outlined saucer-shaped object with two extremely bright sources of green light on the underside. The object was approximately 20 to 30 feet wide and hovered at roof-top level, about 15 feet above the ground. Inside a transparent dome, she said, there were two men, "dressed in fairly close-fitting suits of shiny material. "Mrs. Frederick Moreland, of Blenheim, New Zealand, a busy housewife with five children, was helping her husband tend their small nine-acre farm as well as working part-time as a nurse's aide at Lister Hospital, in Blenheim, at the time her sighting occurred. On July 13, 1959, at 5:50 a.m., it was dark with a low cloud cover when Mrs. Moreland went to the barn to do the morning milking. She noticed a green glow in the overcast and was half-way across the paddock when she saw two large green lights emerge from the clouds and descend rapidly toward the ground, in her direction. Eyewitness Statement "I noticed that I was bathed in a green light and that the entire paddock was green, too," she later reported. In her written statement to the local police, she said that it was so bright she could not see her own "torchlight" in the green glare. "It was a horrid sort of color. My first thought was, `I shouldn't be here, 'and I made a dive for the trees on the other side of the paddock." The light from these sources beamed out over an area of 50 yards. Two rows of jets around the center of the object "shot out orange-colored flame," and appeared to revolve in opposite directions. It was no more than 50 yards away from her. "The jets stopped," Mrs. Moreland said, "and a light was switched on in what appeared to be a Perspex or glass roof or dome, which glowed." She said the bottom appeared to be of a grayish, metallic color. There was a faint hum as the object hovered "and the air became very warm." Inside the transparent dome, she said, there were two men, "dressed in fairly close-fitting suits of shiny material." She compared the material to aluminum foil. She said the occupants wore "opaque helmets" that rose straight from their shoulders. They seemed to be of normal size. She noted that one of the occupants never moved. I could not see their faces," she said. "One of the men stood up and put two hands out in front of him, as if leaning over to look downwards. After a minute or two, the jets started off again and, tilting slightly at first, the thing shot up vertically at great speed and disappeared into the clouds. When it did this, it made a soft, but high-pitched sound." She reported that a peculiar smell, somewhat similar to pepper, lingered in the air as the object departed. Mrs. Moreland stood in the trees for several minutes, not knowing exactly what to do. She finally went on with her milking but was so disturbed by what she had seen that, at 7:00 a.m., she went back into the house and told her husband what had happened. Mr. Moreland, employed by the Royal New Zealand Air Force, suggested that she call the police, which she did. An official enquiry began which included an investigation by the RNZAF. Mrs. Moreland's report was given wide coverage in the press and sometime later it was learned that about an hour before Mrs. Moreland's sighting a Blenheim man named Holdaway had seen a white-orange object through his window. Many people subsequently interviewed the witness, who impressed them with her straightforward account of what she had seen. NICAP has a copy of the witness' first-hand, signed report of the incident. Dr. James E. McDonald, during a trip to Australia and New Zealand in 1967, had the opportunity to interview the witness and he told NICAP that he had been quite favorably impressed.