
I was inside when my father came in to tell me to come look at the weird lights, which at first I thought were spotlights until I called my 

mother-in-law in the next state who was seeing the same thing. This, along with there not being anything resembling beams going to it, got 

me really confused as to what I was seeing.
  
5 minutes into watching this, my fiance and I heard what sounded like jets coming and going in no specific direction in the sky. After about 

20 minutes it was gone. source: www.mufon.com
 
Illinois-10-13-08-I was driving to work heading west on Route 38 and Industrial Park Rd. I noticed this bright cigar-shaped object 

moving across the sky from north to southwest. It was moving very fast across the sky, it was not an airplane. It was low enough that I 

could see it was not. It was very bright silver, with no lights visible.
  
All of a sudden as it moved for only 25 or 30 seconds in the sky, it was gone just as fast as it appeared. It did not change any 

directions, just a straight line from north to southwest and then gone. There were no clouds for it to go into. As I drove I kept looking into 

the same direction to see if it would appear again possibly further in the sky, but it did not reappear. My heart pounded very quickly once I 

realized it was not an airplane. source: www.mufon.com 
 
Michigan-10-22-08-A few nights ago I noticed an object above the tree line flashing red, green, and a bright strobe white color. It 

hovered for quite some time not moving at all. My father came over and confirmed this as well. Then we saw planes and helicopters, and 

the object was gone. 
 
Last night a friend was over and I picked her up in a town over. On the way to my house we noticed these objects all over the place. 

When we got to my house we went outside to look. I live on a lake. 
 
We saw many of these objects flashing in and out. Then one came closer, hovered above the water, and gave a light show. The colors 

were intense. I can only describe it as bright white light, sporadically changing to green, blue, and maybe some orange. It threw off colors, 

like a sparkler. It was amazing. 
 
This one object which gave the light show, disappeared behind some trees, then came out and did a light show again. Sometimes these 

would completely disappear and then reappear. source: www.mufon.com
 
Ohio-10-22-08-I was looking out of my garage at the night sky and saw what appeared to be a firework of some sort. I thought 

this one will fizzle out, but it continued to move, made a sizzling sound, but yet continued to move west towards Cincinnati from the Amelia 

East Fork area.
<p>
As I stood up and got a better look, it appeared to be a size of a small rocket on fire but yet still moving, as in a searing repetition, like 

it was getting stuck? I called out, "OH MY GOD! What IS that?" I watched until it disappeared quickly. I ran inside and told my son and 

husband hoping they wouldn't think I had lost my mind. source: www.mufon.com
 
Great Britain-07-13-08-I was at home playing football in the back garden, and afterwards I went to lay down on the grass. As I 

was relaxing, something caught my eye in the sky. The sky was quite clear, it was a sunny day with some clouds about, as I was trying 

to find what got my attention. Eventually I spotted this object that was flashing in and out. I guess that's what caught my eye in the 

beginning. 
 
It looked to be a shiny/metallic object. I would estimate the size probably 10-20 feet across, and about several hundred feet up in the sky, 

still in view range. It kept on blinking in and out of sequence, like it was on a timer. I watched it about 10-15 minutes. I have no clue 

what I witnessed but it was nothing I have ever seen before. source: reader submitted

  
 
