
Introduction
 
As the wave of sightings over Michigan seemed to fade, it seems that a spate of 

reports over Missouri has taken their place. There have been about 10 reports in 

the last couple of weeks, with four them being very detailed.
 
First Report - 10-24-09
 


The first report of significance was of a sighting on 10-24-09. A motorist who was 

traveling to a friend's house made a stop at a major intersection. Soon, he noticed 

a bright, single white oval light coming toward his location. He wrote this off as a 

commercial jet.
  
As he watched the craft, he noticed a green navigational light on one of its wings. 

But, as the craft moved behind some trees, and then reemerged, the light was 

now white! The object's path caused it to show its underside. He could now clearly 

see a perfect, isosceles triangle.
  
The UFO was lit with white lights, a red blinking light, and had a red glow around 

it. The object then banked slowly toward the north, and all of the white lights 

began to blink. At this point, a vehicle ahead of him slammed its brakes on. Our 

witness barely avoided a collision.
 
The incident occurred near St.Louis, and the reporter is certain that other 

witnesses exist. The weather at the time was slightly cloudy in a night sky. His 

report was made to MUFON.
 
Second Report - 10-30-09
 
Six days later, on 10-30-09, also in St.Louis, another unknown object was reported 

by a lady who had picked up her father to take him to the bank. She waited in her 

vehicle for her father to return. The day was partly cloudy, and the time was about 

4:45 PM.
 
She rolled her window down to enjoy the nice weather. Then she noticed an object 

moving her way from behind her. She could clearly see the object was black, and 

bigger than an airliner. It was slowly moving underneath the cloud cover. As she 

got a good view, she was shocked to see its true shape.
 
There were two triangles, one small one in the front, and the larger in the rear. 

The two triangles were connected to one another with a rod. She watched the 

object for a full five minutes, as it made its way south / southwest. She believes 

that if this object had been seen at night, it could easily be seen as two smaller 

triangles, instead of one.
  
A few days later, she related her sighting to her fiancé, and he found a very 

similar sighting - our first report in this article. The sightings in Missouri continue with  Missouri Wave, November. 
