Excavator operator Teuvo Kovalainen had begun his shift at 22:00 the previous evening. The site was 300-400 meters NW of the Pahkakoski turbine power plant by Iijoki river. A drainage project was in progress, and Kovalainen's duties included measuring the groundwater flow hourly. The weather was very clear, temperature well below freezing, with no fog or haze. Red Object Seen Around midnight Kovalainen took a coffee break and returned to his workplace barracks on the northern bank of the river. As he was crossing the dam bridge he saw a reddish light, larger than the moon, in the eastern sky, descending behind the tree line farther away. Kovalainen assumed that "the Russians" were taking some spacecraft or other out of orbit. He had his coffee and went back to work. A Second Witness At 01:30 Kovalainen was returning from a round of meter reading in a marsh about 100 meters from the river. Just as he was crossing a ditch that ran down to the river, he saw a strong, red-tinged light about 400 meters ahead, moving west at a good walking pace. He wondered a little about this, and could find no good explanation. Soon after, at 01:45, it was mealtime. Reaching the end of the dam bridge, Kovalainen noticed a bright reddish light about 400 meters downstream from the plant. "There's some weird lights out here!" he shouted into the door phone to the plant's night operator, who then came down to have a look. Together the two men began studying the strange intruder. The bright object was looming about 10 meters above ground, and by observing the lights apparent on it the men concluded that it must be some sort of craft. The light was reddish on one side of the object, bluish on the other. As it slowly proceeded westward the craft appeared to swing back and forth around its vertical axis, so that the red and blue lights alternated in being most prominent. The light emanating from the object didn't appear to have any focused source, but rather amounted to a kind of glow extending two or three meters out from the craft itself. Object Observed for 30 Minutes The two men marveled at the object for about half an hour. Among other things, they noticed that there seemed to be a second, dimmer pair of red-blue lights on the upper part of the craft. But at this point the men still had another station to attend to that night, and they drove off to the Kierikki power plant six kilometers west. During this trip they did not observe anything special. Returning to the Pahkakoski dam bridge just before 03:00 AM, the men were in for a surprise. First, they noticed that there were now two objects visible above the tree line, about 600 meters NW of the bridge. Then, a moment later, they detected a number of other lights to the left of these two. They tried to count them, which was not easy, since the lights were constantly moving around close to the ground. They settled at 14 or 15. More Objects, More Details The night operator now had to go back to do his own meter readings, and the men drove up to the power plant. Soon, Kovalainen returned alone to the dam bridge to make more detailed observations of the objects, which were still hovering in almost the same spots as before. He noticed that the two objects closest to him carried searchlights of some kind. One shone them towards the town of Oulu (SSW), the other towards the dam bridge. Suddenly the latter object made an amazingly quick move, shifting into a stand of trees two or three hundred meters to the left in about a second. The first object descended almost to the snow-covered ground. In the dark of the night it could now for the first time be seen more clearly, as its lights reflected back from the snowy trees, illuminating the object itself. Kovalainen was able to note that although UFOs come in various shapes, this one was disc-shaped, and estimated its diameter to be about 30 meters. The object was articulated into two distinct parts. The upper part had two vents or portholes on opposite sides, measuring two to three meters. The bottom part was flattened out in the middle, and Kovalainen judged this level spot to be 10 meters across. More Witness Observations The next half hour Kovalainen spent intently watching the amazing view before him out on the marshland. He thought of venturing closer for a better look, but decided against taking any chances. During this whole observation the objects gave off neither flame, smoke nor any other exhaust, nor did they make any sound. At one point the first object lit up by the snow shone a bright beacon on the ground from its lower part, at which the object wobbled slightly up and down. One by one all the objects began slowly moving away to the west. Kovalainen watched the silent procession until dawn. The last object was still visible at 05:45 AM, when day had already broken. It was nowhere close any longer, but still shining brightly, "big as a house." SOURCE: Ultra Magazine #7-8/1980, p.4, "Iijoen ihmeet."