Ohio - 11-01-10 - City of Roseville. I saw a VERY bright, very slow moving object that I cannot explain that had almost radiating rings of light when I zoomed with my camera. I stepped outside for a smoke at my home in Ohio after my husband left for work around 6:57 AM. I looked up to the sky and noticed something I at first thought to be a very bright star. But this 'star' was brighter than any one I had ever seen in my life, and was moving ever so slowly and it made me curious. There was absolutely no sound that I heard from this and even if it made sound, it probably would have been too far away fro me to hear it. I then decided to get video of this thing. I had the camera on normal at first and then I zoomed in on it. When I zoomed in on it I saw what looked like rings going all the way through this thing and the rings seemed to be flashing. I zoomed back out and then turned off the camera because I had to go into the bathroom and put on my slippers and coat as I did not expect to be so cold standing out there. It was around 29 degrees. When I came back out, the object was gone. source: www.nuforc.org Ohio - 11-11-10 - City of Oberlin. Last night at approximately midnight, two flashing lights were spotted parallel to each other. They were flashing red, blue, and white, and were slowly moving, individually of each other in figure 8 patterns. Tonight, at an early hour, my friend and I witnessed these two lights again. However, this time they were accompanied by two other lights only flashing red. One moved up in a straight line, and one moved horizontally. The horizontal light changed directions after about five minutes of flight, and increased its speed to disappear into the southern periphery. When we left the site, the two parallel flashing lights were still in the sky. source: www.nuforc.org Ohio - 11-12-10 - City of Cleveland. The unknown object I saw was circular, and definitely coming from Lake Erie. Driving on the shore way RT 90 last night around 6:00 PM, I saw unknown lights above the city. There were many of them, and they were not airplanes. I think I saw one very close. It seemed to come up from the water, it was kind of clear with a light in the center. I am not sure what it was, but all the people in the cars around me were looking up also! source: www.nuforc.org Ohio - 11-19-10 - City of Massillon. I saw a triangular-shaped object flying low with white flashing lights over Perry Township. As I was driving north on Genoa Avenue in Massillon, I saw something that was not an airplane,  blimp, or anything I'd ever seen before. It had two red lights on the edge of the wings, with white lights in the middle. The craft was heading south as I drove north. It didn't seem to be moving fast. It seemed to be very low, maybe 100 feet above the trees. As I drove closer to it, I could see flashing multiple white lights underneath it. I had my window down, and I noticed there was no noise at all. I tried taking a photo with my phone but it didn't turn out. source: www.nuforc.org