Michigan - 03-28-11 - City of Cornell - Sighting lasted 3 minutes A bright, round light was seen moving slowly across the sky and wavering a little, then the light suddenly vanished. Last night at around 8:30 PM, I arrived home from work. I got out of my car and was walking to my back door when I noticed a very bright light just to the northwest of my house. It was not at the altitude of normal jet traffic, but seemed to be at a level that small aircraft would fly. What caught my eye was that it wasn't traveling at the normal speed of an aircraft. It was moving slower and it was much brighter than what a small plane looks like. I stared at it and also noticed that it seemed to be wavering back and forth a little as it moved from the northwest to the southeast. I watched it travel for about 2 minutes and thought that as it passed me I'd see a blinking light or something that would indicate it was just a plane or helicopter, but all of a sudden the bright light just went out and I never saw it again. I stayed outside for a few more minutes hoping to see it again, but it never appeared. Michigan - 03-28-11 - City of Ann Arbor - Sighting lasted about 30 seconds. A triangular UFO was seen over downtown Ann Arbor. At 11:15 PM, a friend and I were in the alley behind work, having a cigarette. The sighting took place in downtown Ann Arbor. My friend looked up and exclaimed, "What the .... is that?" He pointed directly upward to a triangular object with three points, each designated by a soft, blue light. The object seemed not to cruise a regular speed, but sort of float and pivot slightly back and forth, headed in a general northwest direction. The object itself was barely discernible, except the back looked slightly concaved, or fish-tailed. We saw the object floating for about 15 seconds before it disappeared behind the buildings in the city. Michigan - 03-28-11 - City of Ft. Wayne - While watching Saturn, lights in a triangle shape are seen. The sighting lasted about 1 minute. I was looking at Saturn in my 15 x 79 binoculars and while I was trying to get it in my view, to my left I saw movement, and I had it in my view, which is 4 degrees. It filled most of the 4 degrees with the sight of three objects moving together in a triangle formation. The lights were very faint, and when I removed my binoculars, and looked away, I could not see a thing. I then put my binoculars back up, and I could easily see them heading over the Metro Airport, before they soon disappeared. The objects amazingly made no sound at all. Michigan - 03-30-11 - City of Ann Arbor - Bright lights moving in strange patterns for about one hour. I saw the brightest lights moving in the weirdest patterns with a lot of plane and satellite activity around it. I was driving home from dinner on a back road with my girlfriend when we saw the weirdest thing. The brightest LED-like light was flashing over the western horizon. Then the flash turned into 3 flashes, each at the same time about a mile apart for one flash, and then back to the same 2-second pattern of one light flashing. We both felt chills down our spines as we watched this spectacular event. There was no way this was an airplane. I have never seen lights this bright, and they moved like lightning. We parked the car at a field and watched this amazing event. We then noticed an abundance of what seemed to be planes bunching around the lights. We left the scene because it was cold out and we were freaked out. All reports courtesy: www.nuforc.org