

Shape: Triangle - Duration: 10 minutes - Triangular shaped light in the sky with a fourth orb following behind. 

Driving home the other night my fiance and I looked up in the sky to see a triangular shaped 'craft' of some sort. The object consisted of 3 separate bright orange/yellow lights spherical in shape. There was also a fourth 'craft' moving behind it.  This fourth craft appeared to attach itself to the triangular shape and from there the bottomed right craft slowly peeled off and the lights disappeared. It didn't appear to be an airplane because there were no flashing lights indicating so.  

We have also witnessed this occurrence while driving near Armada. We have no explanation for what these lights could possibly be. The lights either completely vanish only to leave the fourth orb of light by itself for approximately a minute and then that too vanishes, or they all completely disappear together.  

On a side note, both my fiance and I are hunters. And since seeing there lights we have not seen any wildlife;  including birds and squirrels. 

Also see Michigan Swamp Gas Case, and Michigan: Rich in UFO History.  Wickenburg, Arizona - 11-02-13 
Shape: Light - Duration: 20 minutes - Similar to Phoenix Lights. 


My husband and 9 yr. old daughter were in our truck heading to Las Vegas from Phoenix. We were on highway 93, heading north just through Wickenburgh, AZ, just past where the 60 turns into highway 93 (mile marker 171). We saw a big single bright orange-gold light in the sky - it caught our attention.  Similar to 'Phoenix Lights' 

All of a sudden, off to the left hand side [11 o’clock position in the horizon] - the one light horizontally multiplied into 3 and then 5 lights [very much reminiscent of the "Phoenix Lights" back in 1997 - but on a much smaller scale] and back to 1 and then disappeared.  It happened again 30 seconds later off to the right-hand side [1 o'clock position of the horizon]. Again, the 1 multiplied into 2, then 3, then 5 lights - back to 1 and then disappeared. 

By this time my husband and I were really excited about what we saw, so my 9 yr. old daughter, in the back seat wanted to see it too. Lights Vanish  

At this moment we decided try to find a place to pull the car off to the side of the road, hoping to capture it on video. While she was also looking out the window it happened one more time off to the far left side of our vehicle, probably the 9 o'clock position on the horizon. Unfortunately by the time we found a place to pull the truck over, the lights had vanished and didn't appear anymore.  

However, we did see & hear two incredibly fast move military jets moving in tandem in the sky. We knew they were military because of the rate of speed, and the unmistakable roar they make. They tore through the sky directly above where the lights had been and continued on south out of our sight.  

Then, it was over. My husband and I looked for the next mile marker after we started down the road again and it was no. 190. I am a nightly Coast to Coast listener so naturally I knew to notate all of these details so I could submit a report to you. 

It was our own personal "Phoenix Lights" incident; which by the way we also saw back in 1997. We were driving on the 202 Freeway at the time and observed the lights hanging in the sky. 

Anyway, that's our story. 

See more on the Phoenix Lights at Pilot Sees Phoenix Lights, and Former Governor Saw Phoenix Lights.