Colorado - 11-18-10 - I pulled into a Shell gas station on the corner of Parker and Quincy in Aurora, CO. I was filling up my car with gas when I saw a plane fly over from the north. Being an aviation enthusiast, I glanced up to look at the plane and noticed right behind it, 3 very faint, white dots to the north. The dot in the center glowed red for a few seconds, like a window reflector used to block heat on a car window. At first I thought it was either 3 aircraft or balloons. But the objects were completely stationary, not moving like an aircraft, just standing still in the sky. After about a minute, the sphere on the far left disappeared. The two remaining spheres stayed stationary for about 10 seconds, but then the one on the far right moved to the center sphere very quickly, and then disappeared. I grabbed my camera and took a picture of the center sphere but it was an old manual film camera (Pentax K1000) and the film did not turn out correctly exposed. Source: www.mufon.com Florida - 11-20-10 - While playing scrabble on our west-facing back porch, I noticed a large, bright orange light moving rather slowly from north-northwest towards the south-southeast. It made no sound. The object appeared to turn right towards the southwest, out over the Gulf of Mexico. The brightness of object did not change as the turn was made. The brightness diminished as it appeared to move away. This was was witnessed for approximately 4 minutes, with four total witnesses. All commented on the unusual nature of the incident. After thinking about the incident for an hour, I called and reported the incident to Pinellas County Sheriff in Dunedin, FL. I inquired if any other calls had been placed about the incident, and was informed that they had received none. Source: www.mufon.com Illinois - 11-15-10 - I was in my side yard bringing in the bird feeders as we have a raiding raccoon and it destroys the feeders. I live 50 miles north west of O'Hare Airport. I like to watch the planes as they fly over both day and night, I noticed a jumbo jet on its landing path, and I like the view of their wing tip lights from rear or the amber glow they have. I noticed a bright, star-like object behind and above the plane. At first I thought it was Jupiter, but then I noticed that it was moving at the same speed as the plane. Normal rule that I know of is 3 mile distance between planes landing. It stayed above and behind the plane until the plane was out of sight, but I could still see the unknown object on the horizon. It had no strobe lights or any lights at all. A second plane was within the normal distance from the jumbo jet and flying at same altitude as jumbo jet and descending. Source: www.mufon.com New Hampshire - 11-18-10 - I was at the auction in Concord, NH, as I usually am on a Thursday night. I left the auction at about 8:15 heading back home to Vermont going up I-89, when in the area while on the interstate around Warner, exit 9 at about 8:30, I noticed in the sky an unknown object. It was flying low, slowly, and was a large, bright object. I then slowed down while on the interstate and watched it as it approached and passed directly overhead and went south as I went north. It was a partially moonlit night, with the object below the cloud line approximately 2,000-3,000 feet up. Judging by the width of the lights at that height if they were on the ground they would have stretched beyond the width of the interstate. No aircraft that I know of has a light set-up like this, and I know my aircraft. There were no green or red lights blinking or visible on the ends. Source: www.mufon.com