Another Step Forward - The Brazilian Directive Wouldn't it be nice if the US and other governments would adopt a policy on UFOs similar to that just initiated by the military in Brazil? Actually, the Brazilian Air Force is the agency with new regulations on UFOs. There is now a definitive procedure for air force pilots to follow when they see an unidentified flying object. They must post a report in the Aviation Command books, which shall in turn, register the report with the National Archives. Although there are currently no "official" UFO reports in Brazil, there have been a number of excellent cases logged and maintained by private UFO groups. These groups will have full access to the National Archive UFO reports. Utilizing the Process I often think about the scene in "Close Encounters of the Third Kind," in which an airport radar tower is depicted. A pilot reports that he is seeing a UFO. Soon, the UFO zooms very close to the plane in question. The relieved pilot is asked by the radio control tower employee, "Do you want to report a UFO?" The pilot replies, "No, I don't want to report one of those." Why not? Well, for one thing there is the old stigma that if you report a UFO, you're a nut, even if you are a pilot. Also, I'm sure there is some form to fill out, and that can't be fun. Then there is the debriefing, and who wants to go through one of those. No telling just how detailed and grueling one of those may be. If you get through all of the above, then come the warnings. I have read personal accounts of many of these from various witnesses of UFO events, and this is a harrowing, demeaning experience. And then there are the warnings. Bones in the Sand? The funeral home had a contract with Roswell Air Base, and Dennis had taken an injured soldier back to the base, and saw the unusual debris from the Roswell crash. He was then warned with the now infamous threat. Let's hope that if any of the Brazilian pilots see a UFO that they don't have to go through what an American pilot would, and are able to easily get their report on record. We can only hope that other countries will follow this example, and that someday the United States Government will finally trust its citizens to be able to "handle the truth."