What I am relating here is that one meets some interesting, yet strange characters, and bizarre stories at a large UFO meeting. While driving between Edmonton and Ontario, Canada, in 1987, 27-year-old Jim Moroney had an out-of-this-world experience. He and his automobile were beamed up into a waiting UFO. Still today, he will stand before an audience of UFO students and say, "I was abducted by an alien." At least he still has his sense of humor. He tells the onlookers, "I mean, how do you tell someone you're dating that you were abducted by aliens?" I suppose that is a good question, and I'm sure it is one you don't often hear. Moroney claims that the UFO was occupied by small alien beings, about 3 ft. tall. Communication was simple as the beings spoke fluent English. Experience Changes One's Life A typical presentation from Moroney is not really that shocking, considering his audience. Always on the search for new ideas, there are researchers for television programming and even major motion pictures present at almost all meetings of any size. "Some people have had direct experience, others have had sightings, and then some people haven't had sightings or experiences at all, but believe in the phenomenon for some reason or the other, so are here to get answers, so claims Steve Murillo, director of MUFON's Los Angeles chapter. Murillo, like other students of the phenomena, believes that although many people listen intently to the stories of UFOs and alien encounters, most of them have a little skepticism in their souls, that is until it happens to them. Not only does the experiencer go from being a skeptic to a believer, their entire world changes. Many new questions come to mind for the experiencer; Is earth only a small part of a populated universe? What is our part in the grand scheme? What is the alien agenda? Experiencers Do Not Trust Others Those who attend UFO gatherings can be a strange sort. There are those who are very fearful of those around them. Could an attendee be a government agent? Some will not allow their photograph to be taken, attempting to stay out of the government's database as much as possible. Another audience member relates her experience; a woman from Studio City has been interested in the UFO and alien culture for more than 30 years. It all began when she saw a green-lit UFO near the Hollywood sign. She believes that this was a type of connection, and since then she started to communicate with aliens through telepathy. California - Has Its Share of UFOs California has always been on the cutting edge of society, even alien communication. The Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI) Institute is located in the Lassen National Forest, sporting 42 radio dishes. Although recently shut down for lack of funds, generous donations have got them back on their feet. The state also has its share of USOs, or Unidentified Submersible Objects. Recently a case was investigated in which two Malibu witnesses saw a UFO come out of the ocean. They called the police, and soon a van arrived, and did a full scale investigation. This is something that would not have happened ten years ago. But, who were these men? They were not local police. Could the government have been monitoring police communications, and intervened in this case? Quite possibly. Another community that is hidden away in the Los Padres National Forest, Pine Mountain, located about 100 miles north of Los Angeles, has its stories. It would be the site where a resident reported a small being come out of a spacecraft. These are only a few of the many stories you hear at a UFO meeting. So, do you still want to go?