Illinois - 01-10-12 Email sent to MUFON last night (1-10-12) @ 7PM I witnessed this with my 2 sons as we drove east from New Lenox to Frankfort, traveling down Laraway Rd. Driving East down Laraway road this evening, I saw 4 rapidly blinking lights from red to orange. They were in a square shape formation, rotating and twisting and traveling East. At times it looked like a straight line. I was driving and was awestruck... they were in the distance to East of me. They looked to be traveling a bit to the North, maybe following the I-80 expressway. Then one broke off and it started heading North. Then the remaining 3 formed the classic triangle shape. The one that broke off moved out to the north, stopped, and stayed motionless. The lights were unlike anything I had ever seen before. I live in an area where Midway and O'Hare airports are located, so I know what a helicopter and aircraft look like at night. They weren't the normal slow flashing lights and these lights were flashing fast with more colors at times. These lights looked as bright as LED Christmas lights that pulsed very fast, and were flickering. They also changed from red to orange and other colors in-between at fast increments; almost too fast to see but they registered. They were brighter than any other aircraft lights that I've ever seen. If you hear any more reports of this, please let me know. I honestly would like to hear that they were helicopters on a training mission form the military. But if so, they were the brightest helicopters I've ever seen. I'm a 30-year-old man. I don't drink or do drugs. I'm on the level.  Illinois - 01-10-12 I was driving through town (three blocks from my house) when I noticed some lights that seemed to be very low. My first thought was an airplane, but then I saw that it was a triangle-shaped object. I was on a side street so I stopped the car to take a better look. I could see a distinct triangle shape, with three lights on the bottom of the object. The lights were white, red, and green, and the object itself was a dark black. Even though it was night, I could still see the outline and the fact that it was a solid object. It was flying from north to south, and moving slowly. I was excited about seeing it and I do remember just being in awe over how it looked. I did look at the time on my cell phone and it was exactly 6:30 PM. I watched it until 6:32 until I lost sight of it. I came straight home afterwards and a friend sent me a text saying that she had just heard on her scanner that a military helicopter was in trouble and making an emergency landing at our airport. (About 4 miles from my house) The scanner reported that the military helicopter had 3 people aboard, and was having engine trouble. (it landed safely) The helicopter flew directly over my house in route to the airport, and I thought it was odd that this happened right after I had spotted the triangle object.   Illinois - 01-11-12 Around 6:00 PM, I witnessed something unknown in the sky. I was leaving my apartment to get gasoline for my car. As I was walking out of the building, I glanced left towards the sky and saw something insane. In the sky there were 2 huge, cigar-shaped objects. They were like huge, skinny rectangular objects. Both had what looked like 5 flashing orange lights coming from square windows or something of the sorts. The one cigar-shaped UFO was slowly turned round and round counter-clockwise. The one to the right of the cigar, seemed to move towards the rotating UFO, and then it crossed a path in front of it. Now what appeared to be a black helicopter was hurrying around both of the UFOs. I have no idea what it was doing; Inspecting? The whole event of my witnessing this took place under 30 seconds because I ran back to the apartment to have my mother and son come out and look at the phenomenon. I was scared to death! As soon as we all came outside to look everything was gone. Is there something going on in the Illinois sky? Anyone else from Illinois witness anything bizarre in the sky?