
The light dimmed out and then became bright again. At this time, we turned to Goldenwest Avenue. We parked at a shopping center on Yorktown and Goldenwest. The light had seemed to break away into 2 lights. These were not as bright as before. When they broke away, some smaller lights fell from them heading down. 
 
We did not see where these went.  The other two lights kept going off into the distance. I drove to my parent's house in HB off of Yorktown and Newland, and they live across the street from a park.  At that time, more objects were flying, some really low and for how low they were, the sound that came from them was not loud enough for a plane. 
 
Too many of these objects were in the sky especially since John Wayne and Long Beach Airports don't do flights after 10:00 PM.  source: www.brianvike.com
 
California - 04-16-09 - Mission Viejo - Upon returning home from a walk with my son, we looked up at the hillside of Saddleback Mountain. My son saw a bright, glowing, blue light on one of the canyon rims. I saw one on another canyon rim to the west. 
 
We watched these lights for approximately 40 minutes. As we watched, one would fade out, then the other would get brighter, then both would go out, then both start glowing again. 
 
Toward the end of the 40 minutes, they would each split into 4 separate lights and swirl around the hillside, then rejoin the glowing blue light. source: http://www.brianvike.com
 
Tennessee - 04-19-08 - On the night two tornados ripped through Nashville, I took several photos of the city. In the last picture, a UFO is hovering above the buildings in central Nashville city. 
 
The object was not in a photograph taken some 4 seconds earlier. It's huge and from what I've seen, the best picture of a UFO above a city ever taken.
  
I still have the picture in my camera to prove it's not a fake. I'm not sending it out where it can be claimed by who knows who. I'm calling around to see who wants to examine my photo and camera. Let me know if you are interested.
 
This is no BS, I host a show on Discovery Channel, which is why I don't give out my address. source: www.mufon.com
 
Virginia - 03-20-09 - Boones Mill - Driving home from work around 9:15 at night, I neared the residence of where I live. From the road, you can see a mountain range in the distance, and above it I noticed a series of what appeared to be 3 to 4 lights.
 
I was still in the car at this point, but watched the lights as best as I could while driving a car. They never moved, and when I got home, which was about 5 minutes later, I rushed into a room on the right hand side of the house in order to look out of the window (it provided the best view of the mountain range). 
  
On first glance, it seemed the light was gone, I therefore wrote it off as an odd airplane. I stayed for a few more minutes, and it popped back into vision. Again, above the mountain range, a series of bright red lights appeared, completely silent. 
 
This mountain range is only a few miles, so if was an airplane flying at such a low altitude, it would've been heard. The lights would blink on, then stay off for roughly 10 seconds, then the object would appear again either higher or lower from its previous location. About 3 minutes later, the object drifted silently to the left, and disappeared behind the tree line. source: www.ufoinfo.com
