 

Brought to public knowledge by UFO investigator Leo Stringfield, from an account by Charlette Mann. Mann related the story of her grandfather Reverend William Huffman, who claimed to have been called to the scene of a crashed UFO with dead aliens.
 
                      
1947-The Roswell, New Mexico UFO Crash
 

The most famous UFO case of all occurred near Corona, Mexico. Rancher Mac Brazel found strange crash debris on his morning rounds, and reported his find to local radio station. Soon, the military from Roswell AFB was involved, and issued a press statement that the Air Force has captured a UFO.
 
                      
1957-Ubatuba UFO Fragments
  

On September 14, 1957, Ibrahim Sued, a columnist for the Rio de Janeiro newspaper 0 Globo, printed a letter, which he had received, concerning a UFO incident. Accompanying the letter were three small pieces of white metal. Thus was ushered in one of the most controversial of all physical-evidence cases. The writer of the letter described an event in which a "flying disk" exploded over the beach at Ubatuba, in Sao Paulo Province. Some of the metal, which had "rained down" from the exploding disk, was collected, and three small pieces were included in the letter to Sued.  
 
                      
1965-The Kecksburg, Pennsylvania Crash
  
What exactly soared through the late afternoon skies of Canada, Michigan, Ohio, and Pennsylvania on December 5, 1965? Eye witnesses described the unknown object as a "fireball," but it seemed to be under some type of intelligent control, as it veered somewhat in Ohio toward the Quaker State. A fiery object crashed into a wooded area near Westmoreland County. 

 
                      
1965-UFO Landing in Pretoria, South Africa
  

The UFO was copper colored and about 30 feet in diameter In seconds, the object lifted off the road, emitting tongues of flame from two tubes or channels on the underside. "Its lift-off was quicker than anything I have ever seen." Constable Lockem said. Flames from the macadam road surface shot up in the air about 3 feet as the UFO departed, blazing long after it was out of sight. Later investigation showed that part of the road was caved in as if from a heavy weight, and gravel had been separated from the tar in a severely burned area about 6 feet in diameter.
 
                      
1966-The Tully Saucer Nest
  

A surprise came when Pedley rounded the bend of the road and came to the spot from which the object had risen. There in the lagoon was a large circular area that was clear of reeds and in which the water was rotating slowly. It had not been like that three hours earlier when he had passed the lagoon. After looking around, he got back on the tractor and left. A few hours later, at about noon, Pedley returned to the lagoon for a second look. The scene had changed, because now the circular area was covered by a floating mass of green reeds that were distributed in a clockwise radial pattern. The circular mass of reeds was about 30 feet in diameter. 
  
