

While looking over the MUFON open files on Sunday morning, I noticed a rash of reports of a cone-shaped light / object reported by as many as 15 different witnesses, in states ranging from Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia in the United States.
 
Also, there was one report from Novia Scotia, Canada. Each and every one of these sightings occurred on 09-19-09. Below find some of the reports. These pretty much represent all of the reports.
 
Connecticut - 09-19-09 - I went out to pick up a pizza last night at 7:50 PM, and when I got out of my truck I noticed a white light shining down from a cone-shaped mist. There didn’t seem to be any movement. I was looking south over the top of the building at about 30 to 35 degrees.
 
It was a perfectly clear sky. I watched the light for about 30 seconds before it just faded out. At first I thought it looked like a spotlight shining down, but then I realized there was no sound and that it looked as if shining through a mist.
 
Maine - 09-19-09 -My mother and I arrived in Wellfleet for a week's vacation. We were sitting outside looking west / northwest at the water having a glass of wine. There was not a cloud in the sky. She looks up towards west / northwest and says "What is that?" 
 
There was a bright ball of light that opens from a ball into a light shining from above downwards toward land in a cone shape, (it didn't shine to earth, but half way towards the bay - but not reflecting on the water etc.) It then seems to close as if the 2 sides of the cone came together and it leaves a image of light.
 
Maryland - 09-19-09 - We were sitting outside at a bonfire. I looked up and pointed, then my 5 friends all saw the same thing. A bright light that looked like a star with a cone-shaped light coming out from the star, looked as if it was coming down to earth.
 
The star disappeared about 30 seconds after we saw it, the cone stayed but slowly disappeared. This all lasted maybe 2 or 3 minutes at the most! It was too quick for us to get a picture once we thought of it. 
 
It appeared as a foggy cloud but when it disappeared we realized there were no clouds in the sky at all. The light we saw was much higher then any airplane would travel. 
 
Pennsylvania - 09-19-09 - I was at a friend's house near Hill Road in Shickshinny, PA. I was sitting in my car, which was on top of a hill facing south towards Jonestown Mountain, when a friend of mine noticed the object and asked us to look at it. 
 
I got out of my car at 7:52 PM ET, so I didn't see how it first appeared. There was a central circular object, very bright and larger than a star, casting a triangular beam light directly down towards the ground. This circle / light lasted in full strength, with no movement, sound, or flashing, for about 30 seconds. 
 
Then the light seemed to shrink in its own fog (whereas the rest of the night sky was completely clear) until it completely disappeared. This disappearance occurred over the course of a minute. Three of us saw this object and were stunned by its presence. 
 
Nova Scotia, Canada - 09-19-09 - To begin I have to say that never in my life would I have thought twice about reporting a UFO event. I've always thought the subject interesting, but I never gave any of it much thought. That was before last night.
 
My family and I were driving home from a dinner with my grandparents. It was dark with many stars in the sky. I was 
listening to my Ipod when my brother said that there was something weird in the sky. This was at 8:50 PM (Atlantic time, 7:50 PM Eastern). Everyone in my family was transfixed on this light emanating from the sky. 
 
At first I thought it was a search helicopter, but at a second glance I realized how far up it was and the light was too intense. There were no sounds that would have indicated it was a helicopter. The source of light began with the point in the sky and broadened as it descended to earth. It had a cone shape.
 
Late Breaking News - There is now an explanation for this phenomena. According to www.spaceweather. com, this is what happened.
 
The cloud was created by a Black Brant XII sounding rocket launched from NASA's Wallops Flight Facility in Virginia. 
 
The rocket released a cloud of electrically-charged aerosols near the top of Earth's atmosphere to investigate the formation of noctilucent clouds or "NLCs."  Mysterious NLCs form naturally around Earth's poles during the months of northern summer. 
 
On this September evening, researchers decided to see if they could create an artificial NLC at mid-latitudes; it seems to have worked. 
