Pennsylvania - 07-04-10 - City of Hellertown - On the 4th of July, about 11:15 PM, we saw a teardrop-shaped object in the sky. This object rose in the western sky to the right side of Saturn. We were out with our telescope and originally thought it might be a fireworks display. For a minute it looked like it was hovering, but it actually was moving from west to east. The object looked like a teardrop, and when it was directly overhead through binoculars it looked like it had a central ring. The object was orange, made no noise, and definitely was not a plane, balloon, fireworks, or any other known object. It also did not seem to be a meteor. This object finally disappeared in the east. Source: www.nuforc.org Pennsylvania - 07-05-10 - My wife and I left my relatives' house in Linden, around 11:00 PM. Soon, we saw something unusual, a type of light in the sky. The light was brilliant red, and sitting in the eastern sky. Before long, the object began to move behind some trees, obstructing our view. We then proceeded to go home to Avis, and when we got off the main highway, we witnessed the red light with three other red lights in the eastern sky. We stopped our car next to a pipe company, I jumped out of the car and saw them just hovering there. They were in a diamond shape, then a triangle shape. I witnessed them for about five minutes or so, until they started to fade out one by one. Source: www.nuforc.org Pennsylvania - 07-05-10 - East Greenville - We were outside together, and one of us happened to look up in the sky and saw an object that we couldn't identify. It was about 9:45 PM at the time. Soon, we could see a bright red, glowing orb which moved from about 150 ft to 20 ft, disappearing below the tree line. There were 6 family members there at the time, and we all saw the red orb. It began to glow, and move in a straight line from southeast to northwest. The orb moved in a very controlled manner, in a straight line on an angle towards the ground. After the object disappeared below the tree line, the glow disappeared and wasn't seen again. Source: www.nuforc.org Pennsylvania - 07-06-10 - City of Womelsdorf - I live in a small farm area in southeast Pennsylvania, about 60 miles northwest of Philadelphia. At approximately 22:00 hrs, I was taking some long exposures of the fireworks put on by the city. I was just trying to keep the shutter open long enough to get a shot of the fireworks over the cornfield, into the valley below. My location was 40 degrees, 24',39 north x 76 degrees, 14',31 west. Photos that I have e-mailed to the director were shot at 173 degrees south to 132 degrees south southeast. Upon viewing the photos on the computer about an hour later, I came across some light formations in the sky on the photos that none of the kids nor my wife could remember seeing during the short display of fireworks we witnessed. Various objects show up on the group of photos in different locations around the area the fireworks were located. There is even one photo where the objects are behind the fireworks.  These objects are definitely not a part of the fireworks, since they appear the same, with no change over the 15 to 20 second exposure time. Source: www.nuforc.org