
We have always had what we call UFO hot spots, or certain locations that for some reason seem to have more than their share of UFO sighting reports. 
 
The state of Texas certainly is one of these, and I would like to discuss what I believe are the ten best UFO cases from the Lone Star state. These cases have been of great interest to UFO researchers for many years. 
 
Although debunkers have always had various alternate explanations for these cases, the ten you find here are well documented, and accepted as legitimate by most UFO researchers.
 
The Early Years - 3 Cases
 
During the late 1800s and early 1900s the great airship sightings were making news, and there were three important cases reported in Texas during this time period. Occurring in January, 1878, one of the earliest cases of interest was the  Denison, Texas UFO .
 
While most researchers attribute the term UFO to the 1947 sighting by pilot  Kenneth Arnold , it was actually used in 1878 when Texas farmer John Martin described a flying object he saw during a hunting trip.
 
The flying machine was distant and small at first, but soon grew larger as it flew toward him. As it moved right over his head, he 
could see a saucer-shaped, dark object. Martin's experience was published by the Denison Daily News, with "A Strange Phenomenon" heading the article.
 
A case that is quite well known is the  The Aurora Crash  of 1897. A movie was even made of the incident. In April, a flying ship of unknown origin crashed into the small town, destroying a windmill in the process.
  
Allegedly, a small being's body was discovered among the debris. Also, the debris contained hieroglyphic-like writing on a strange metal. The town gave the being a proper burial in their cemetery.
 
The case gained public popularity from the writings of Dallas Morning News reporter S. E. Haydon. Copies of the paper still exist today. 
  
A rare UFO-water case, which was brought to public knowledge by the Houston Post, involved a 1987 sighting in the town of Josserand. 
 
Frank Nichols, a farmer known for his good character, heard a "whirring" sound, similar to some of his farm machinery. He immediately went outside to find out what was happening. He was shocked to see an large, unknown object landed in his cornfield. The flying vessel was decorated with brilliant colored lights.
 
Having heard the stories of the flying ships in local newspapers, he immediately knew that one of these ships was visiting his farm. Two beings soon emerged, holding buckets. They asked Nichols for water. He obliged them. In all, he saw 6-8 crewmen, who invited him to aboard their ship.
 
Relating the details of his visit inside the ship, he told newspaper reporters that the components of the vessel were far advanced from anything he had seen before. 
 
Welcome to Camp Hood, Texas
 
It is common knowledge among researchers that UFOs have an avid interest in nuclear energy. A number of US military bases have been visited by unknown objects, clearly seen by military personnel. One of the very first cases of this kind took place at Camp Hood, Texas, in 1949. 
 
The world's largest military installation in the free world is now named Fort Hood. The base is located in and around the city of Killeen.
 
The months of March through June would have no less than a dozen reports of unknown flying objects, all by military personnel. The first report was made by two security patrolmen guarding the nuclear weapons storage site. The next day, just after midnight, a Private First Class reported an orange object which appeared to land at or near the base. Two other groups of witnesses corroborated the sighting.
 
The sightings continued for four months, with multiple witnesses often the case. One particularly bizarre sighting occurred when personnel attempting to find of the cause of the sightings by releasing flares, were interrupted by the sightings of several aerial phenomena. Multiple groups of witnesses around the base also saw the objects.
 
The Camp Hood phenomena was never explained, although seen by as many as 100 different witnesses, and confirmed by radar. The case was fully investigated by the NICAP group. No earthly explanation was ever found.
 
A Classic Case - Classic Photographs
 
Things remained fairly quite in Texas until 1951, the year of  The Lubbock Lights . Three Texas Technological College professors made the first report, a glowing group of lights that crossed the Lubbock skies on August 25. This group would be followed another and then another.
 
During the next few months, up to 12 groups of these boomerang-shaped objects would be seen.
 
Air Force officials denied that any of their crafts were flying on the nights of the sightings, and no plane flights or other conventional objects were found to explain the lights.
 
Many watched the skies for the unknown objects, including one Carl Hart Jr., who on August 30, took five photographs of the UFOs. Attempts to find a conventional explanation for the Lubbock lights failed. They are still a mystery to this day.
 

