Florida - 01-31-11 - City of Jacksonville - A meteor-like object falling from the sky with a smoke trail that stops instantly and appears to be a green light hovering, then disappears. It was 9:45 PM, as I was driving down Philips Highway when I looked up at the sky and noticed a meteor-looking object. It was falling from the sky with a small smoke trail, maybe coming from engines, but then it stopped almost instantly in the sky. Then there was no more smoke or fire, just a faint, shining, green light hovering in the sky, and a second later it took off again. This time there was no smoke or trail, it just zoomed out like it went into warp speed and disappeared. I couldn't believe what I saw. Source: www.nuforc.org Florida - 01-31-11 - The city of Dunedin. A white and red sphere seen over Clearwater. My brother and I witnessed two spherical lights, one white and one red, swoop down across the sky in the south from right to left at a high rate of speed. We lost sight of them after they passed behind a tree. The red sphere was behind and to the left of the white one as if flying in formation. They moved from southwest to northeast, and began flying upward just before our view was blocked by a tree. We both lost sight of them at that point. The spheres appeared to be about twice the size of the star Betelgeuse, which was visible at the time. The sky was clear. We didn't hear any sound at all. Source: www.nuforc.org Florida - 02- 06 -11 - City of Miami - A gleaming, orange orb was seen hovering and making uncommon aerospace maneuvers. First witness observed at 7:20 PM, driving down a suburb street, from a distance of about two miles, a gleaming orb of light mistaken at first for a helicopter. The lighted object appeared in visible range the size of 1 meter across, and hovered in the air along the car at 11 o'clock position. It made no sound. The object made no sound when above. Witness 1 alerted witness 2 + 3, who tracked the object behind the automobile. Witness 2: Tracked object hovering down and behind the car still in air above tree line, 6 o'clock high bobbing up and down with rapid ascent into non-visibility. Source: www.nuforc.org Florida - 02-05-11 - West Palm Beach - 6:48 PM - Sighting lasted 15 seconds. At what seemed to be a very high altitude, an object, moving at a high speed, was seen traveling from south to north. Shortly thereafter, possibly only a few seconds, the unknown object simply disappeared. At the time of the event, the night sky was clear, and the object appeared to be about 70 to 80 degrees above the eastern horizon. I am not sure what it was, but it was nothing I had ever seen before. Source: www.nuforc.org