
Beyond these mountains is the Hualapai mountain range, a good distance away from Kingman, Arizona, so I know that they were in our area of the neighborhood. A few moments later we started scrambling for a monocular I had in the car, but by then their lights had dissipated. This not the first sighting in this area we have witnessed but it is the first MUFON report we have written. Perhaps someone can take some interest in our area. We have quite a few sightings out this way and deserves more attention. source: www.mufon.com 
 
Colorado-10-02-08-We were driving home from dinner in Beaver Creek, when I saw up in the sky an oval-shaped object hovering in the sky above the mountains to the east of Beaver Creek.  The object was hovering slowly, and then disappeared quickly, shot away. The entire event lasted only approximately 2 minutes. There was one bright light on the object similar to the Phoenix lights. source: www.mufon.com
 
Maryland-12-11-08-After taking out my trash, I was walking back to the house. I kept hearing a low, humming sound, but did not pay any attention to it until I entered my back door. The object was hovering in an area just above the tree line behind my house.
 
It did not move until I shined a flashlight at it. I became frightened when it flashed back an intensely bright light at me, just seconds after I had shined my light at it. I am scared, this is certainly not normal. I do not believe in life elsewhere, but I cannot explain what I saw. source: www.mufon.com
 
Wyoming-12-11-08-I glanced out the window and noticed a star-like light that was too low to be a star, as there is a mountain range there. I went outside to figure out what it was. After watching it for about one minute, I noticed it was moving very slowly in an upward direction. After about another minute had passed, there were two of these star-like lights. 
 
They were both moving in an arc pattern, back and forth, like a set of parenthesis. So I stared at the objects, waiting to see if they would come closer. They did not, instead, after about three minutes of moving slowly back and forth, the one on the north side changed to four dimmer red lights that slowly faded away.
 
The remaining light seemed to stay in the same place for about another minute, before turning to four red lights and fading away. Being a pilot, I know this was like no aircraft I have ever seen. source: www.mufon.com 

