Aliens and Their Ships On New Years Day, 1970, a bizarre encounter with a UFO and alien beings occurred at the Cowichan District Hospital in Duncan, Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Nurse Doreen Kendall, along with Frieda Wilson, were checking patients on the second floor at about 5:00 AM. Doreen was near a window, and peering out, she saw a startling sight - an unknown flying object hovering about 60 feet above the ground. The object was saucer-shaped with a transparent dome on top. She could clearly see two humanoid beings standing in front of what must have been a control panel. The being were clad in black uniforms, and apparently one noticed they were being watched. The object began to move away, but not before Kendall alerted Wilson, who arrived in time to see the UFO. The unknown flying object made a couple of circles, and then sped away. A strange encounter with alien beings in 1972 was recounted by a Uruguayan Navy Captain, Juan Fuentes Figueroa. He was one of five men to maintain the lighthouse on Isla de Lobos, a small island a few miles from the coast of Uruguay. About 10:00 PM, Fugueroa was assigned to check the generators, located at the base of the lighthouse. His journey was only about 50 meters, and as he proceeded, he was shocked to see unidentified lights on a terrace, which stood about 6 meters high. Thinking it might be a car, he returned to the office to get his pistol. As he began to return to the lighthouse, he again saw the strange lights, but this time he could also see a small figure by the object, and another coming down from the object. Then, a third, taller being began to descend from the object. But, as he did, one of the two smaller beings noticed Figueroa, and it appeared to him that the three began to discuss the situation. Frightened, he raised him arm to shoot at the three, but he felt he was unable to do so. He felt paralyzed, unable to act. The three beings reentered the craft, and were soon gone. No one believe his story, but he swears it is true. Four Cases of Abduction 1973 would bring about one of the most researched cases of alien contact and abduction. Occurring in Pascagoula, Mississippi, two fishermen, nineteen-year-old Calvin Parker, and forty-two-year-old Charles Hickson were fishing on the banks of the river. Soon, their entire world as they knew it would change. A low-flying UFO descended upon them. Strange, hideous creatures appeared, and took them into their craft. See the full account of this incident at the Pascagoula, Mississippi, Abduction. In 1975 we have two well known cases of alien contact and abduction. The first case of note involved Air Force Sergeant Charles L. Moody, and took place in Alamogordo, New Mexico, on August 13, 1975. According to Moody, he was in the desert to watch a meteor shower, when he saw a glowing, metallic object descending to the ground about 300 feet away. Moody says that the object wobbled as it made a landing. Moody attempted to flee, but his car would not start. Looking back at the craft, he saw a rectangular window with a being inside. He claimed to be abducted, and after a series of self-hypnosis sessions, he recalled his harrowing experience. See more details of this case at The Charles Moody Abduction.