Windows 8. Basic Windows 8 information. Windows 8.1 UpdateInformation on the Windows 8.1 update. Windows 8.1 Update 1Information on the Windows 8.1 Update 1 update by Microsoft. How To Clean Install Windows 8A complete walkthrough of the Windows 8 clean install process. Windows 8 DriversUpdated list of Windows 8 driver download sources. How To Clean Install Windows 8 Pro UpgradeHow to clean install Windows 8 using the Windows 8 Upgrade download from the Microsoft Store. How To Reset a Windows 8 PasswordInstructions on resetting a Windows 8 logon password. How To Change Windows Update Settings in Windows 8A tutorial on making changes to automatic updates and other related settings in Windows Update in Windows 8. How To Install Windows 8 From USBInstructions on getting the Windows 8 setup files from a disc or ISO image onto a flash drive so Windows 8 can be installed from USB. Installing Windows 8 FAQFrequently asked questions (and my answers) concerning installing and upgrading to Windows 8. How To Find Your Windows 8 Product KeyHow to use a product key finder tool to extract, from the registry, the product key you used to install Windows 8. How To Update Drivers in Windows 8Instructions on manually updating a device driver in Windows 8. How To Start Windows 8 in Safe ModeA complete tutorial, including screenshots, on starting Windows 8 in Safe Mode. How To Open Command Prompt in Windows 8A tutorial on opening a Command Prompt window in Windows 8. How To Open an Elevated Command Prompt in Windows 8Easy instructions on opening an elevated Command Prompt (running Command Prompt as an administrator) in Windows 8. How To Show Command Prompt & PowerShell on the WIN-X Menu in Windows 8.1Instructions on switching the shortcut on the Power User Menu between PowerShell & Command Prompt in Windows 8 (Windows 8.1+). How To Access Advanced Startup Options in Windows 8Several methods of starting Advanced Startup Options in Windows 8. How To Open Control Panel in Windows 8Instructions on opening Control Panel in Windows 8. How To Open Device Manager in Windows 8A tutorial on how to access Device Manager via Control Panel in Windows 8. How To Boot to the Desktop in Windows 8 & 8.1A tutorial on making Windows 8 (Windows 8.1+) boot directly to the Desktop, skipping the Start screen. How To Access Disk Management in Windows 8A tutorial on how to open the Disk Management utility in Windows 8. Where Can I Download Windows 8 or 8.1?How to download Windows 8 or 8.1, where it's legal and where it's not, etc. How To Write a New Partition Boot Sector To a Windows 8 System PartitionHow to use bootrec /fixboot to write a new partition boot sector in Windows 8. How To Tell if You Have Windows 8 64-bit or 32-bitA short tutorial on determining which system type of Windows 8 you have: 64-bit or 32-bit. How To Update to Windows 8.1A complete tutorial on updating Windows 8 to Windows 8.1 - for free! How To Find the Default Gateway IP Address in Windows 8A tutorial on identifying the default gateway IP address Windows 8 is configured to use. How To Change Another User's Password in Windows 8A tutorial on changing another user's password in Windows 8. I Forgot My Windows 8 Password! What Are My Options?Several things you can do if you've forgotten your Windows 8 password. How To Automatically Logon To Windows 8 or 8.1A simple tutorial on how to make Windows 8 login automatically after you turning on your PC. Walkthrough: Install Windows 8 From a Flash DriveA complete, screenshot-based walkthrough of the process of installing Windows 8 from a USB device like a flash drive. How To Use System Restore in Windows 8A complete tutorial on using the System Restore tool in Windows 8. How To Change DNS Servers in Windows 8 or 8.1Instructions on changing the DNS servers that Windows 8 uses. How To Use Steps RecorderA completely tutorial on using Steps Recorder (PSR) in Windows 8.