Beep Codes Sound During BootWhat to do when you hear beep codes after turning on your computer. Color Issues on the MonitorAre the colors "off" on the screen? Do you have problems with images being too dark or too bright? There a number of different reasons why your monitor may not be representing color properly. How To Troubleshoot a Noisy Computer FanHow to narrow down what fan is making noise, and then what to do about it. Hard Drive Making NoiseClicking, grinding, and similar noises coming from the inside of a computer could be an indication of a failing hard drive. Here's how to troubleshoot that problem. How To Test a Computer Monitor That Won't Display Or Is Not WorkingA troubleshooting guide for a monitor that doesn't seem to be working properly. Troubleshoot a Computer That Shows No Sign of PowerThere are several easy-to-solve possible causes to a computer that isn't receiving power. If you turn on your computer and it doesn't power on at all then try some of these easy troubleshooting steps. Troubleshoot a Computer That Turns On But Stops Booting During the POSTSometimes your computer may actually turn on fine but an error message during the Power On Self Test will stop the boot process. Other times your computer may simply freeze sometime during the POST with no error at all. Fix these problems with these steps. Troubleshoot a Computer That Turns On and Then Immediately Turns OffIs your computer turning off by itself immediately or at some point before the operating system loads? If so, you may be facing anything from a simple electrical short inside your computer to a serious hardware issue. Troubleshoot a Computer That Turns On But Displays Nothing on ScreenThe most common way that a computer won't turn on is when the PC actually does power on but doesn't display anything on the monitor. If nothing is showing up on your screen then troubleshoot with this guide to find the cause of the problem. How To Troubleshoot an Error Message During StartupThere are lots of error messages that might show up during your computer's startup. Use this troubleshooting guide to figure out what to do about about a startup error message. How To Fix a Computer That Won't StartDetailed advice on what to do if your desktop, laptop, or tablet computer won't turn on. How To Troubleshoot Stopping, Freezing, or Reboot Issues During Windows StartupHow to troubleshoot Windows startup issues like freezing, stopping, or continous reboots - called reboot loops. When Windows freezes during startup, or stops or reboots, the problem could involve hardware or software. How To Troubleshoot a Computer That Repeatedly Returns to Advanced Boot OptionsIf you can't get in to Safe Mode and keep returning to the same menu over and over again, then try this line of troubleshooting. How To Troubleshoot Stopping, Freezing, or Reboot Issues During Windows LoginHow to troubleshoot Windows stopping, freezing, and reboot issues during the Windows login process. Corrupt Windows files are usually the cause of reboot loops and lock-ups on the login screen or while the Windows desktop is loading. How To Recover From a Frozen Windows Update InstallationHow to escape a locked-up Windows update installation.