I Forgot My Windows Vista Password! What Can I Do?Several different ways to reset or recover your forgotten Windows Vista logon password. "How Do I Open Windows Vista Device Manager?"You may need to open Device Manager in Windows Vista for a number of reasons. Open Device Manager in Windows Vista from the Computer Management utility, the System applet in Control Panel, or from a command prompt. Access Device Manager From a Command Prompt in Windows VistaA really quick way to access Device Manager in Windows Vista is from the command prompt. Just type a quick command and Device Manager starts right up! Follow these simple steps to access Device Manager from a command prompt. Access Device Manager From the Computer Management Utility in Windows VistaHow to start Device Manager from the Computer Management utility in Windows Vista. Access Device Manager From the Control Panel System Applet in Windows VistaOne way to access Device Manager in Windows Vista is from the System applet found in the Control Panel. Follow these simple steps to access Device Manager from Control Panel's System applet: Adjust the Colors Display Setting in Windows VistaMaking changes to the colors display setting in Windows Vista may be necessary to fix color problems on monitors and other display devices. How To Automatically Log On To Windows VistaA complete tutorial on forcing Windows Vista to login automatically after startup. Backup Registry Keys in Windows VistaAlways backup registry keys before making changes in the Windows Registry. Export registry keys from the Windows Vista Registry with these easy steps. Backup the Entire Registry in Windows VistaInstructions on backing up the registry in Windows Vista. How To Change Another User's Password Windows VistaA short tutorial on changing another user's password in Windows Vista. How To Change Drive Letters in Windows VistaHow to change the letter assigned to a drive in Windows Vista. Change the Default Program for a Specific File Extension in Windows VistaA detailed tutorial on changing what program opens when open certain types of files in Windows Vista. Change the Start Menu Power Button ActionBy default, Windows Vista sets the start menu power button to sleep mode. Save yourself some time and energy by configuring the power button to do just that - power down your PC. Change Your Windows Vista Logon PasswordChanging your password in Windows Vista is pretty easy and is something you should do if you're having problems remembering your current password. How To Copy a File in Windows VistaA tutorial on copying files from one place to another in Windows Vista. Create a Windows Vista Logon PasswordCreating a Windows Vista account password for the first time is very simple. You're just a few clicks away from setting up a new password for your Windows Vista account. Create a Windows Vista Password Reset DiskCreating a Windows Vista password reset disk can really come in handy if you forget your account password. With it, you can easily reset your password and get right in to Windows Vista. Delete Registry Keys in Windows VistaYou may need to delete registry keys from the Windows Registry to fix a problem or complete a registry hack. Remove registry keys from the Windows Vista Registry with these easy steps. Delete Your Windows Vista Logon PasswordDeleting your Windows Vista account password will allow you to completely bypass the normal logon process. While it isn't a very security-minded thing to do, removing your Windows Vista password might be something to consider if you have problems remembering your password. Disable a Device in Device Manager in Windows VistaYou may want to disable a device in Device Manager if you want Windows Vista to ignore it, if it's using valuable system resources, or maybe as part of a troubleshooting step. How To Disable Automatic Restart From the Advanced Boot Options Menu in...A tutorial on disabling the feature in Windows Vista that forces your computer to restart after a BSOD. Disable Error Reporting in Windows VistaError reporting in Windows Vista is enabled by default. You may want to disable error reporting for privacy concerns, if you're not connected to the Internet all the time, or just to stop being annoyed by it. Disable Low Disk Space ChecksAre those low disk space warnings in Windows Vista annoying you? Would you like to speed up Windows Vista a little? Find out how to easily turn off the low disk space warnings. How To Disable Taskbar Button Grouping in Windows VistaA tutorial on disabling the taskbar button grouping feature in Windows Vista. Disable the Automatic Restart on System Failure in Windows VistaWindows Vista is setup by default to restart immediately after a major system problem. This reboot usually happens too fast to see the error message on screen. Disable Thumbnail Previews in Windows Vista ExplorerBy default, Windows Vista generates a preview thumbnail for nearly every file when viewed in Windows Explorer. Yes - thumbnails can be really useful for quick photo viewing, but disabling these thumbnail previews in Windows Explorer can really speed things up. Enable a Device in Device Manager in Windows VistaEach hardware devices listed in Device Manager must be enabled if you plan on utilizing it. Follow these easy steps to enable a device from within Device Manager in Windows Vista Find the Administrator Password in Windows VistaWays to find an admin password in Windows Vista. Find the Windows Vista Product Key CodeThe Windows Vista product key code can be difficult to locate. You need your Windows Vista key code to reinstall Windows Vista so follow these simple steps to locate the key. Hide Hidden Files and Folders in Windows VistaA tutorial on making Windows Vista hide files with the hidden attribute. How To Access Disk Management in Windows VistaInstructions on how to open Disk Management in Windows Vista. How To Determine if You're Running Windows Vista 32-bit or 64-bitA tutorial on how to tell if you're running Windows Vista 64-bit or 32-bit. How To Find a Driver's Version Number in Windows VistaThere are several reasons you might want to know a driver's version number in Windows Vista. Follow these steps to find a driver's version number from inside Device Manager in Windows Vista. How To Find What Windows Vista Service Pack is InstalledA tutorial to help determine which Windows Vista service pack you have applied. How To Format a Hard Drive in Windows VistaInstructions on how to format a hard drive from within Windows Vista. How To Install a Windows Vista GadgetA tutorial on installing Windows Vista Sidebar gadgets. How To Partition a Hard Drive in Windows VistaInstructions on how to partition a hard drive in Windows Vista using the Disk Management tool. How to Perform a Startup Repair in Windows VistaThe Startup Repair tool in Windows Vista replaces important operating system files that might be damaged or missing. Startup Repair is an easy diagnostic and repair tool to use when Windows Vista fails to start properly. How To Reset a Windows Vista PasswordInstructions on resetting a Windows Vista password (the one you use to log on to Windows). How To Start Windows Vista in Safe ModeDetailed instructions, including screenshots, on how to start Windows Vista in Safe Mode. How To Properly Reinstall a Program in Windows VistaInstructions on reinstalling a software program in Windows Vista. How To Restore the Registry in Windows VistaInstructions on restoring the Windows Vista registry from a REG registry backup file. Roll Back a Driver in Windows VistaThe Driver Roll Back feature in Windows Vista is used to automatically install the previously installed driver for a hardware device. Follow these steps to roll back a driver in Windows Vista. Show Hidden Files and Folders in Windows VistaHow to configure Windows Vista to show files and folders with the hidden attribute turned on. Update Drivers in Windows VistaInstructions on updating drivers in Windows Vista. How To Use System Restore in Windows VistaA complete tutorial on using the System Restore tool in Windows Vista. View a Device's Status in Device Manager in Windows VistaViewing the status of a piece of hardware is necessary if it's not 
working properly or if you were warned of an issue by a yellow exclamation point in Device Manager. "What Is the Default Administrator Password For Windows Vista?"Knowing a default administrator password for Vista would be very useful when your computer prompts you for the administrator password and you have no idea what to put! Where Can I Download Windows Vista?There are many places to download Windows Vista. You'll usually want to download Vista so you can reinstall it after losing your original Windows Vista Setup CD. Windows Vista: The Missing ManualMy review of the book "Windows Vista: The Missing Manual" by David Pogue. How To Delete Temporary Files in Windows VistaInstructions on removing temporary files from the "Temp" folder in Windows Vista. How To Write a New Partition Boot Sector To a Windows Vista System PartitionHow to use the bootrec /fixboot command to rewrite the partition boot sector on the active Windows Vista partition. How To Rebuild the BCD in WindowsHow to rebuild the BCD store in Windows Vista using the bootrec command. Windows VistaBasic Windows Vista information.