Step by Step Guide to Resetting a Windows 7 PasswordA complete walkthrough, including screenshots, of an easy method for resetting a Windows 7 password. How To Write a New Partition Boot Sector To a Windows 7 System PartitionHow to use bootrec /fixboot to create a new partition boot sector in Windows 7. Access Device Manager From the Command Prompt in Windows 7A fast way to access Device Manager in Windows 7 is from the Command Prompt. Just type a short command and Device Manager starts right up! Follow these simple steps to access Device Manager from the Command Prompt in Windows 7. Access Device Manager From the Computer Management Utility in Windows 7How to start Device Manager from the Computer Management utility in Windows 7. How To Rebuild the BCD in WindowsHow to use the bootrec command to rebuild the BCD store in Windows 7. How To Access Device Manager From the Control Panel in Windows 7Instructions on opening Device Manager via Control Panel in Windows 7. How To Change Another User's Password in Windows 7A tutorial on changing another user's password in Windows 7. How To Change Drive Letters in Windows 7How to change the letter assigned to a drive in Windows 7. How Change the Default Program for a Specific File Extension in Windows 7Detailed instructions on how to change what program opens for a particular file type in Windows 7. How To Change Your Windows 7 PasswordAn easy to follow tutorial on changing the password to your Windows 7 logon account. How To Copy a File in Windows 7A tutorial on copying files from one place to another in Windows 7. How To Create a Windows 7 Logon PasswordInstructions on setting up a Windows 7 login password on a computer that doesn't currently require one. How To Change Windows Update Settings in Windows 7A tutorial on making changes to the settings in Windows Update that control automatic updating. How To Create a Windows 7 System Repair DiscInstructions on how to burn a System Repair Disc from within Windows 7. How To Create a Windows 7 Password Reset DiskA tutorial on creating a Windows 7 password reset disk or flash drive which you can use to reset your password if you forget it sometime in the future. Determine if You're Running Windows 7 32-bit or Windows 7 64-bitHow to tell which architecture you're using in Windows 7: 32-bit or 64-bit. How To Disable Automatic Restart From the Advanced Boot Options Menu in...Instructions on disabling the feature that forces Windows 7 to restart after a Blue Screen of Death. Disable a Device in Device Manager in Windows 7You may want to disable a device in Device Manager if you want Windows 7 to ignore it, if it's using system resources you'd like to allocate somewhere else, or maybe as part of some troubleshooting process. Disable Error Reporting in Windows 7Error reporting is enabled by default in Windows 7. You might want to disable error reporting for privacy concerns, if you're not connected to the Internet all the time, or maybe just to stop being annoyed by the alerts. How To Disable the Automatic Restart on System Failure in Windows 7Instructions on how to disable the "Automatic Restart on System Failure" feature in Windows 7 so you can read the error codes that appear on a Blue Screen of Death. Enable a Device in Device Manager in Windows 7Each hardware devices listed in Device Manager must be enabled if you plan on utilizing it. Follow these easy steps to enable a device from within Device Manager in Windows 7. Find the Administrator Password in Windows 7Several ways to find an administrator-level password in Windows 7. Formatting a Hard Drive in Windows 7 TutorialA screenshot-based walkthrough for formatting a hard drive in Windows 7. Hide Hidden Files and Folders in Windows 7A tutorial on configuring Windows 7 to hide files with the hidden attribute. How Do I Open Windows 7 Device Manager?Links to several tutorials outlining the various methods of reaching Device Manager in Windows 7. How To Access Disk Management in Windows 7Instructions on how to open Disk Management in Windows 7. How To Automatically Logon To Windows 7A simple tutorial on how to make Windows 7 login automatically after you turn on your computer. How To Backup Registry Keys in Windows 7Always backup registry keys before making changes in the Windows Registry. Export registry keys from the Windows 7 Registry with these easy steps. How To Backup the Entire Registry in Windows 7Instructions on creating a backup of the registry in Windows 7. How To Delete Registry Keys in Windows 7Instructions on properly removing registry keys from the Windows Registry in Windows 7. How To Find a Driver's Version Number in Windows 7There are many reasons you might want to know a driver's version number in Windows 7. Follow these simple steps to find a driver's version number from within Device Manager in Windows 7. How To Find What Windows 7 Service Pack is InstalledA tutorial to help determine which Windows 7 service pack you have applied. How To Format a Hard Drive in Windows 7Instructions on how to format a hard drive from within Windows 7. How To Install a Windows 7 GadgetA tutorial on installing a new Windows 7 gadget. How To Partition a Hard Drive in Windows 7Instructions on how to partition a hard drive in Windows 7 using the Disk Management tool. How To Reset a Windows 7 PasswordInstructions on resetting a Windows 7 password. How To Perform a Startup Repair in Windows 7A complete walkthrough for completing a Startup Repair in Windows 7. How To Restore the Registry in Windows 7Instructions on restoring the Windows 7 registry from a Registration backup file. How To Start Windows 7 in Safe ModeDetailed instructions, including screenshots, on how to start Windows 7 in Safe Mode. I Forgot My Windows 7 Password! Is There Anything I Can Do?Some things to try if you've forgotten your Windows 7 logon password. How To Start Windows 7 Using Last Known Good ConfigurationA screenshot-based walkthrough on starting Windows 7 with Last Known Good Configuration. How To Remove Your Windows 7 PasswordIf you're the only one with access to your computer, removing your Windows 7 password allows quick access to your computer. How To Roll Back a Driver in Windows 7A tutorial on rolling back a hardware device's driver in Windows 7. Updating Drivers in Windows 7 TutorialA step by step tutorial to updating drivers in Windows 7 with screenshots and details on each step. How To Show Hidden Files and Folders in Windows 7Steps to take to configure Windows 7 to show files and folders with the "hidden" attribute. How To Use System Restore in Windows 7A complete tutorial on using the System Restore tool in Windows 7. Update Drivers in Windows 7Instructions on updating drivers in Windows 7. View a Device's Status in Device Manager in Windows 7Viewing the status of a hardware device in Windows 7 is necessary if it's not working properly or if you were warned of an issue by a yellow exclamation point in Device Manager. What Is the Default Password For Windows 7?Actually, there isn't a default Windows 7 password, but there plenty of solutions to whatever password issue you have right now. Where Can I Download Windows 7?A discussion on downloading Windows 7, where it's possible, the legality of doing so, etc. How To Use Problem Steps RecorderA completely tutorial on using Problem Steps Recorder (PSR) in Windows 7. Windows 7: The Definitive GuideMy review of the book "Windows 7: The Definitive Guide" by William Stanek. How To Properly Reinstall a Program in Windows 7A tutorial on how to reinstall a program, the right way, in Windows 7. How To Install Windows 7 From USBA tutorial on properly preparing a USB storage device, like a flash drive, so you can use it to install Windows 7. Windows 7Basic Windows 7 information. How To Open an Elevated Command Prompt in Windows 7A tutorial on opening an elevated Command Prompt in Windows 7. This is a Command Prompt session that is run with administrator-level privileges. How To Find the Default Gateway IP Address in Windows 7A tutorial on identifying the default gateway IP address that Windows 7 is using. How To Open Command Prompt in Windows 7A tutorial on starting the Command Prompt program in Windows 7. How To Change DNS Servers in Windows 7Instructions on changing from the default DNS servers in Windows 7 How To Open Control Panel in Windows 7Instructions on opening Control Panel in Windows 7.