Anyone who regularly uses a computer knows all about error messages. Those of you who are also Windows users probably see more than your fair share of them. As a computer service professional, I see more error messages than anyone should in a lifetime!

 Listed below are troubleshooting guides for some of the more common error messages that my readers and clients see on their computers. Everyone makes mistakes... and Microsoft (and other software makers) know that. No matter if you've made a bad change in the registry or emptied the Recycle Bin after deleting your only copy of a report due the next day, there are ways to "undo" the damage. Microsoft knows that problems happen - which is why it provided tools like Safe Mode, Startup Repair, and Recovery Console. You can see complete walkthroughs below.

 Sometimes, however, the only solution to some Windows problems involves a complete reinstallation of the operating system. Below are step-by-step guides to each kind of installation, complete with images and detailed instructions. These resources make a traditionally complicated procedure easy enough for anyone to take on! If you've never done it, opening up your computer to service or replace something inside can seem overwhelming. The thought alone sends many people speeding toward the expensive repair shop.

 Working inside your computer is much easier than you may believe, especially when you have a little help. These resources will help you get in and out of your computer like an expert! A big part of solving nearly any computer problem is testing, especially when a piece of hardware might be to blame. The last thing you want to do is replace an expensive part when it wasn't the problem to begin with.

 Here are several different tests that might come in handy during the troubleshooting of a problem:  As much as I'd love to believe that I have everything covered already on my site, I don't. But that's OK, because as I work to make that more true, there are several ways you can keep in touch. If you need more help then I highly recommend you read through my Get More Help page (first link below) which outlines how to best contact me, which tech support forums are best, and more.