Windows Update exists to keep Windows and other Microsoft software updated, usually with little intervention from us. This includes security updates that are pushed out on Patch Tuesday. Unfortunately, sometimes one or more of those patches will cause a problem, ranging from serious ones like error messages preventing Windows from starting, to less serious ones like video or audio problems. If you're confident that the problem you're experiencing began only after one or more Windows updates, whether manual, automatic, on Patch Tuesday, or otherwise, continue reading for help on what to do next. This might also be a good time to look over my Windows Updates & Patch Tuesday FAQ page if you haven't already. Important: Please read the How To Use This Troubleshooting Guide and Are You Sure This is an Issue Caused by a Windows Update? sections below before moving on to the troubleshooting steps! To get your computer running again, you need to understand how this troubleshooting is organized, as well as make sure that your problem really was most likely caused by a Windows update. I wouldn't normally explain how to use a troubleshooting guide, but since you have the great luck of a theory about the cause of your problem, the help I provide below is structured a bit differently than other tutorials I've created where you work through some other problem with a completely unknown cause. That said, the first thing you need to do is read the Are You Sure This is an Issue Caused by a Windows Update? section below. Even if you're 100% certain that an update from Microsoft caused the problem you're having, do me a favor and read it anyway. If you spend the next hour or two trying to fix a problem using the wrong assumption about its cause, it's unlikely that you're going to walk away with a working computer. Once you're fairly certain that your issue is directly related to the installation of one or more Windows updates, the second thing to do is decide which set of troubleshooting steps to follow, either Windows Starts Successfully, or Windows Does Not Start Successfully. Just to be clear, here's what I mean: To summarize, read the section immediately below this paragraph first and then scroll down and follow the correct set of troubleshooting steps for your problem, determined by how much access to Windows you have right now. STOP! Don't scroll down past this section because you're beyond sure that these Microsoft updates crashed or broke your computer somehow. You're probably right, considering that you found yourself here, but you're wise to consider a few things first: If none of the above apply to your situation, continue troubleshooting your problem as a Windows Update/Patch Tuesday problem by following either Windows Starts Successfully, or Windows Does Not Start Successfully below. Follow this troubleshooting guide if you're experiencing a problem after one or more Windows updates but you're still able to access Windows. Follow this troubleshooting guide if you're unable to access Windows normally after one or more Windows updates were installed. Any of Microsoft's operating systems could experience problems after Windows updates are installed, including Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP, and Windows Server versions. See Get More Help for information about contacting me on social networks or via email, posting on tech support forums, and more. Be sure to let me know exactly what's happening, what Windows updates you installed (if you know), and what steps, if any, you've already taken to try to fix the problem.