Most of the time, Windows Update does its job with little attention from us. While we might check and install updates manually from time to time, most Windows computers are configured to apply important updates automatically, usually the night of Patch Tuesday. Sometimes however, when the patch, or maybe even service pack, is being installed during shutdown or startup, the update installation stops - freezes, locks up, hangs, clocks, whatever you want to call it. The installation of one or more Windows updates is probably frozen if you see one of the following messages persist for a long time: "Preparing to configure Windows.
Do not turn off your computer." "Configuring Windows updatesx% complete
Do not turn off your computer." "Please do not power off or unplug your machine.
Installing update x of x..." "Working on updates
x% complete
Don't turn off your computer" You might also see a "Stage 1 of 1" or "Stage 1 of 3" or a similar message prior to the second example. Sometimes "Restarting" is all you'll see on screen. There might be some wording differences too depending on which version of Windows you're using. If you don't see anything at all on screen, especially if you think the updates may have been installed completely, see my How To Fix Problems Caused by Windows Updates tutorial instead. There are several reasons why the installation or finalization of one or more Windows updates can hang. Most often, these types of problems are due to a software conflict or a preexisting issue that simply wasn't brought to light until the Windows updates started installing. Much more rarely they're caused by a mistake on Microsoft's part regarding the update itself.Note: There's an actual issue with Windows that can cause Windows Update installations to freeze like this but it's only applicable to Windows Vista and only if SP1 hasn't yet been installed. If your computer fits that description, install Windows Vista SP1 or later or this update to solve the problem. Some Windows updates can take several minutes or more to configure or install so you want to make sure the updates are truly stuck before moving on. Trying to fix a problem that doesn't really exist will just create a problem. You can tell if Windows updates are frozen if nothing happens on screen for 30 minutes or more. If there's any wonder after that long, take a look at your hard drive activity light. You'll see either no activity at all, or very regular but very short flashes of light. Chances are that the updates are hung long before 30 minutes but this is a reasonable amount of time to wait and probably twice as long as I've ever seen a Windows update take to successfully install. Please let me know if you've had success escaping a hung Windows update installation using a method I don't have included in the troubleshooting above. I'd be happy to include it here. Any of Microsoft's operating systems could experience freezing issues during Windows updates including Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP, and more. See Get More Help for information about contacting me on social networks or via email, posting on tech support forums, and more. Be sure to let me know exactly what's happening, what updates you're installing (if you know) and what steps, if any, you've already taken to try to fix the problem.