One of the reasons we do long-term tests is to learn about aspects of a car we wouldn't normally pick up on during a week-long test drive (or a day-long press preview). With four months of Passat ownership under our belts and nearly 8,000 miles on the clock, we've had lots of time to find little things that we like -- and some that we don't.

Our Passat SE's seats are covered in what Volkswagen calls "V-Tex" -- a fancy phrase for faux leather, which itself is a fancy phrase for vinyl. Being a child of the 70s, I used to scoff at vinyl seats, but I shall scoff no more. One of the problems we had with our long-term Honda Insight was that the interior did not wear well (though to be fair to the Honda, we're not exactly gentle on our cars). Not only is the V-Tex holding up well, but it's a cinch to clean. We often travel with our dog, and that means paw-prints on the seats, which are difficult to get out of cloth. In the Passat, all it takes is a spritz of general-purpose cleaner and a quick wipe-down with a cloth, and the interior looks good as new. And I don't have to worry about dimples or tears from her doggie toenails, as I would with leather.

I must sheepishly admit that in all my years of reviewing cars, I never paid much attention to rear-seat air vents. Our Passat does not have them, and it's a real problem. This is a big car, and the only way to cool down the rear seats is to close the outer vents and blast the A/C, which a) freezes the people up front and b) makes conversation difficult. We're coming to the end of a hot summer, and this has been our biggest difficulty with the car. There is some good news, though -- Volkswagen has added rear-seat vents to the 2013 Passat, which will be in the showrooms by the time you read this.

My wife loves heated seats, and one of her pet peeves is that some heated seats automatically turn themselves down, and then off. We've encountered this in several German luxury cars as well as some Fords. Why? Beats the daylights outta me. One would think that a person could determine when his or her own bottom is toasty enough. Robin appreciates that the Passat's seat heaters stay on until they are told to do otherwise. (And we're also pleased that a mid-level model like our Passat SE has heated seats in the first place.)

With the ubiquity of MP3 players and USB-compatible phones, every car really ought to have a USB jack. The Passat doesn't -- I have to charge my phone from the cigarette lighter, and tunes (from my phone or my wife's iPod) go through the auxiliary jack or Bluetooth. The top-of-the-line Passat SEL model comes with a proprietary Media Device Interface, which connects via cables that VW sells for $70 a pop. An iPod cable is included, but Android users like me need to buy a micro-USB cable, and folks who own an iPhone 5 or other Apple device with the new-style connector will have to wait until VW offers a new cable. Life would be so much simpler if the car had a USB port.

Our Passat has a power driver's seat and a manually-adjustable passenger seat. The driver's seat is fantastic, with easy to reach controls at the seat base. There's no memory setting -- good thing RObin and I are the same height -- but the passenger seat is a real pain. The seat-height adjuster is in the spot where you'd expect the recline to be, and the recline lever is far back, difficult to reach and even more difficult to use. One might ask, "How often do you need to adjust the passenger seat?" Quite often, actually -- the Passat has enough rear legroom that fore-and-aft travel really don't matter, but my wife, my kids and I can never seem to agree on recline angle, so we're constantly having to use this difficult-to-reach adjuster.

On balance, we're really enjoying the Passat. It's comfortable and it's holding up well. The novelty of owning a diesel is largely passed; aside from a bit of clatter when its cold, I hardly notice the thrum of the diesel -- but you can bet your bottom I notice how little we spend on fuel. This was our second most fuel-efficient month at 39.9 MPG, which brings are overall test average up to 39.5 -- pretty amazing considering we haven't taken the car on any long trips, which is where the diesel engine is supposed to do its best work. We'll find out next month, when we take the Passat out on the open road.

Next: October 2012: First (free) service

 Previous: July/August 2012: Los Angeles takes aim at our Passat

 Test index

Starting mileage: 5,818

 Ending mileage: 7,856

 Mileage this month: 2039.9

 Average fuel economy this month: 39.9 MPG

 Average fuel economy overall: 39.5 MPG

 Repair/service costs this month: $0

 Total repair/service costs: $0

 Problems observed this month: None