When the new 2012 Passat made its debut, it struck me as the perfect car for an American family like ours: Lots of space for our teen-age kids (especially 15-year-old Robert, who is 6-foot-plus and growing like a weed) and the availability of a high-mileage diesel engine promising 40 MPG on the highway. But I'm wary of Volkswagen ownership -- I have several friends who have purchased them, and while some have sailed through the years with no problems, others practically have their own personalized parking spots at the service department.

Volkswagen is looking to grow their market share in America, so I figured the Passat would be the perfect car for a year-long test. I called up Volkswagen, and they were kind enough to provide a year-long loan of a baby-blue Passat SE TDI.

Quite simple, really: I want to see how well these things are built.

Build quality has always been a spotty issue for Volkswagen, but it's critical for the Passat. The Passat was designed expressly to become a mainstream player in the North American market. VW went to the trouble (and cost) of designing a unique car just for us. (Well, us and China.) A few quality glitches may be acceptable in niche products like the Golf R and GTI, which are purchased by enthusiasts who are more willing to put up with the inconvenience of warranty fixes. But if Volkswagen wants to compete against the likes of the Toyota Camry and the Honda Accord, the Passat needs to be flawless.

The Passat is built in an all-new plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Volkswagen's boffins say that getting the build quality perfect was one of their primary goals. Twelve months and 25,000 or so miles should give us the chance to see how well the Passat is screwed together.

My second reason for picking a Passat was the available TDI diesel engine. I've long been a believer in diesel as the best fuel-efficient choice, but Americans have yet to embrace it, and most American and Japanese automakers are staking their finances on hybrids and direct-injected gasoline cars. Our automatic Passat is rated for 30 MPG city, 40 MPG highway, and 34 MPG combined, similar to gasoline-powered compacts like the Hyundai Accent and not as good as the hybrid Toyota Prius V, but still impressive for such a big car. Diesel enthusiasts often brag about regularly exceeding their cars' EPA estimates, but my wife Robin -- who will be putting a lot of miles on the Passat -- is no hypermiler. It'll be interesting to see what the real-world mileage is like -- and also to see if the TDI engine can save enough fuel to cover its $2,270 price premium, especially in the face of rapidly-fluctuating diesel prices.

The Passat has arrived, and so we can set about racking up the miles and answering a few key questions.

I'll be bringing you monthly updates, as well as periodic news on the About.com Cars blog. Stay tuned!

NEXT: June 2012: Getting to know our Passat

 Test index