Forty years ago, Hertz Rent-A-Car added the Shelby GT350, a Ford Mustang modified by legendary go-faster-guy Carroll Shelby, to its rental fleet. Now Ford and Shelby are bringing the Rent-a-Stang back, along with a version for private owners. The new Shelby GT (not to be confused with the uber-performance GT500) will list around $35,000, though collectors will likely pay a great deal more. Whether you buy or rent, it's a fantastic car.

Shelby GTs start life as regular Mustangs and are shipped to Shelby's Las Vegas shop for modification. The mechanical upgrades are based on Ford Racing kits that anyone can buy, but the visuals are unique. Shelby GTs are either black or white with big silver "LeMans" stripes (link goes to photo) running the length of the car, unique grille and front airdam, hood scoop, and SHELBY GT badging . The GT I drove had 18" chrome wheels, but Ford reps told me production cars will have wheels painted to match the body. The Hertz version, known as the GT-H, is black with gold stripes and gets a unique hood, wheels and a chrome Hertz badge on the fender. No, this isn't theft protection; those that survive life in the rental fleet are expected to be extremely valuable when they are sold off. Hertz will add 500 GT-Hs to their rental fleet as part of their Fun Collection in select US cities. Inside both cars, subtlety is the name of the game; a big plaque on the dashboard bearing the car's production number and a likeness of Carroll's signature is the giveaway. Stick-shift versions of the GT get a Hurst shift lever with old-school cue-ball shift knob. No fancy Hurst shifter for the GT-H; they all have automatic transmissions.

I'm glad the designers chose to leave the interior alone. The Mustang's cabin is one of the best "retro" designs ever to hit the public streets. Besides, you don't need no stinkin' badges to tell you this is a special Mustang -- just turn the key. The loud rumble of the modified exhaust tells you everything you need to know. The exhaust system is part of the Ford Racing FR1 Power Pack, which also includes a cold-air intake, high-flow oil filter and performance calibration programming for the engine's computer. GTs with a manual trans get the aforementioned Hurst shifter; its part of a short-throw kit which shortens the movement required to change gears to a scant couple of inches. The shifter takes a bit of getting used to; it feels more like throwing a toggle switch than shifting gears. Once you adjust to the smaller movements, the feeling is absolutely wonderful -- at steady speeds I found myself shifting back and forth between 3rd, 4th and 5th just for the pure joy of it.

Ford estimates the modifications raise the output of the 4.6 liter V8 from 300 horsepower to about 325; a lower gear ratio in the rear axle boosts acceleration. I drove the Shelby GT on Malibu's Pacific Coast Highway, which was crowded with fellow motorists and eagle-eyed cops who I heard had already ticketed at least one of my fellow journalists. So I didn't spent much time foot-to-the-floor -- but I really didn't need to. Even under moderate acceleration, the Shelby GT's exhaust sings a throaty song that car nuts like me could listen to all day, every day. Forget about the farty exhausts that so many of my fellow boy-racers fit to their four-cylinder rides -- the Shelby GT is a reminder that there's nothing like the sound of a powerful V8 at full tilt. The Shelby is also fitted with the Ford Racing FR3 Handling Pack. It includes stiffer springs that give the car a lower ride along with specially modified shock absorbers, sway bars and a strut tower brace. All those bits work together to give the Shelby GT more precise and balanced handling than a regular Mustang, but with a ride smooth enough to live with every day. The Shelby gets traction control to prevent rear wheelspin; it can be turned of on the GT but not on the GT-H.

feel of performance and that's something every Mustang does well, from the sub-$20K I've been a fan of the new 'Stang since it came out in 2005. Common sense dictates that you simply can't take advantage of most performance cars' abilities on public roads; even the best drivers can't control the actions of other motorists. So it's important that these cars deliver theof performance and that's something every Mustang does well, from the sub-$20K Mustang V6 (link goes to review) up to the 500 horsepower Shelby GT500. The Shelby GT is a car you can safely enjoy on your daily commute, and it's bound to be a serious contender on the track as well. At $35,000 it compares well with cars like the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution and Subaru WRX STi, though with Carroll Shelby's signature on the dashboard the GT is likely to trade for a lot more money. No worries, though -- thanks to the Hertz GT-H, lots of people will be able to afford the Shelby GT experience -- if only for a couple of days. Mustang started the "pony car wars" of the 60s, and history is about to repeat as the Dodge Challenger and Chevy Camaro re-appear in 2008 and 2009 respectively. Both will have their work cut out for them. Mustang is a bastion of performance and retro style, and the Shelby GT just adds to the appeal -- for owners and renters alike.