While it still looks like a Sube, it performs like a racecar. The WRX STI (which stands for Subaru Tecnica International) gets its motorsports technology directly from Subaru expertise in FIA World Rally Championship (WRC) competition. Lots of changes for '06: new 2.5L 300hp engine, new driver controlled differentials and re-worked suspension. Let me be perfectly clear: this car for serious driving enthusiasts only. Still looks like a Sube, though. MSRP: $33,600; Warranty: 3/36,000.

Although the STI is new from the A-pillar forward, its familiar Subaru look has been retained. The new grill and cats-eye headlights are, perhaps, the most apparent changes. The others, like the new fenders, the new hood scoop and the new bumper are more subtle. The official line about the new 3-part grill is it celebrates parent Fuji Heavy Industries' 80 plus years aircraft manufacturing heritage - the center, more upright part is supposed to represent a fuselage and the two side parts, the aircraft wings. Unofficially, the word is Andreas Zapatinas, Subaru's new head designer brought it with him when he moved over from Alfa Romeo. You be the judge. Generally, though, the WRX STI leaves no doubt as to its performance car nature. The big air scoop on the aluminum hood feeds outside air to an intercooler sitting square on top of the engine. The two-plane rear spoiler - very similar to the wing on the WRC car - helps to reduce lift and improve high-speed stability. Front and side aerodynamic underbody covers and side ground effects are additions to contribute to high-speed track stability. A new roof vane spoiler not only looks good but improves airflow over the roof. The new headlight pod features Xenon HID low beams.

A racecar deserves a totally no-nonsense interior and the WRX STI gets one. It all starts with a (unique to the STI) 3-spoke leather-wrapped steering wheel. The blue fabric covered front seats with contrasting black knit side bolsters are clearly designed for performance driving but are also quite pleasing to the eye. Matching blue door trim and blue floor carpeting with a big STI logo serves to complement them. When the new 2.5L turbo fires up, all the gauge needles swing to their maximum positions and then return to normal. The tach even reads nine grand. The instrument panel and the gauges feature aluminum trim rings and red LED indicators. Prominent among the displays are a 260km (160mph) speedo and the DCCD display. DCCD is the STI's driver controlled center differential, which increases torque to the rear wheels - up to 59% this year. It operates in both a manual and an automatic mode. But you'll need soft hands to operate this thing effectively in manual mode. The STI is quite roomy  after all it's based on Subaru's popular Impreza sedan. Climate control and a decent sound system are standard. Side airbags with some head protection also come standard but no yaw control is available.

The Canadian auto press was introduced to the new WRX-STI at the Circuit Mont Tremblant (a privately owned ex-F1 track north of Montreal) in mid-August. It was a brilliant affair, the highlight of which was an absolutely stunning display of the art and science of driving by Subaru WRC team phenom, Chris Atkinson. Chris, who is a delightful 24-year old Aussie, presented his credentials to us by climbing into one of the new STIs parked where we press types had left them after showing what (little) we had on the track. He took off slowly as if he were going to kind of feel out the car and the track before taking us one-by-one around for our "hot laps." When clear of the pit, he sped up to about 120mph. When he was no more than 500 feet past where the journalists were lounging against the concrete barrier at the edge of the track, he proceeded to pull first one then from the opposite direction another Junior Johnson-type whiskey turn. Then he pulled a third and fourth, stopping each time exactly on his old marks. Streaking back toward us, he pulled four or five Zenardi donuts in a row. On the last one, he spun his blue STI and tucked it between two WRXs parked directly in front of us.

A thick blue cloud of Potenza 245 45R/17 wafted over the gallery as we - some of us, anyway - swooned in near orgasm contemplating this breathtaking exhibition of driving skill. Chris then invited us to take a couple of hot laps around the track with him. It was a thrilling experience. Also very educative because until he had taken the STI around the high speed sweeping turn near the clubhouse, some of us admitted we hadn't been aware a full opposite lock 4-wheel drift was even possible in an AWD car. Considering the advanced engineering technology it contains, the WRX STI is dirt cheap. It's also just about as close to a real racing car as youd ever want to drive around town. Much more than just a boy racer, in competent hands the STI is capable of truly astonishing performance. Provided you've got someplace to drive your STI as it's meant to be driven, it's hard to imagine having more car fun for 33 grand. However, if you don't live in rural Germany or own your own racetrack you probably won't ever get more than a hint of what this remarkable automobile is capable of.