Tropical Bob has weighed in (quite favorably) on the V8-powered 2005 Ford Mustang GT ; now it's my turn with the entry-level V6. I love it! The "economy" Ford Mustang rumbles and shudders like a proper muscle car, and with 210 horsepower on tap, it's quick. Not just quick-for-a-V6, I mean it's QUICK. And the styling...drop-dead-gorgeous, inside and out. A heck of a bargain at $19,570 (and even at $21,925 as tested). 3yr/36,000mi warranty... yeah, whatever. Let's go drive.

It takes a lot to wring a five-star rating out of me. To earn five stars, a car has to be 100% perfect, or at least have enough positives to overcome the bad. No, not overcome... to wallop the bad over the head and render it unconscious. The Mustang V6 does it. Sure, it has a few foibles, mostly related to cost-cutting on the interior bits. But--look at it! The styling is a perfectly-executed tribute to the first Mustangs of the 60s, both inside and out. It sounds great, drives well, and goes like stink--even with an automatic transmission. It comes with scads of standard equipment including air conditioning, power windows/locks/mirrors, cruise control, alloy wheels, CD player and remote locks, and costs little more than an entry-level Toyota Camry. That, my friends, is one hell of a deal. My tester's options included the aforementioned automatic and traction control (which, trust me, is a must-have--more on that in a minute) and still stayed under $22 large. Talk about pleasing my inner cheapskate! The best part is that the whole is much more than the sum of its parts. The Mustang V6 well-and-truly feels like a muscle car. Of course, it's not as fast as the GT--but nor is it as expensive to buy or insure.

When the Ford Thunderbird debuted a couple of years back, the exterior was great but the interior was a let-down. With the Mustang, Ford got it right. Every panel, every line, every crease pays homage to the original Mustang, from the bulge of the hood to the cut of the roof pillars. Even the wheels are right. But wait--it's even better from the inside! Settle into the Mustang's supportive driver's seat. Grip the three-spoke steering wheel, a modern interpretation of the 60s original. Check out the double-browed dash and the chrome-ringed gauges, lettered in a font lifted directly from the original. The Mustang is totally retro yet totally modern, right down to the t-handle transmission shifter. A $195 Interior Sport Appearance Package adds a few brushed-aluminum trim bits that really complete the effect. I'm not much into appearance-only options but this one is well worth it. Visibility out is quite good, especially considering the car's rakish lines, small windshield and bulging hood. There's even an element of practicality--Robin shoehorned her massage table into the trunk. I mentioned cost-cutting: No light on the visor mirrors and a bit of thin plastic here and there. Perfectly acceptable considering the 'Stang's low price.

Mustangs have a solid (or "live") axle between the rear wheels. Traditionally, live axles are skittish on bumps, and when you add in all the power being sent to the rear wheels, they're a handfull in the rain. The new 'Stang still has a live axle, but a more sophisticated suspension system makes the car more stable. That said, despite being the "small" engine, the 4.0 liter V6 sends a lot of power to the rear wheels: 210 horsepower and 240 lb-ft of torque. A heavy foot on the accelerator can cause the tires to spin and the car to fishtail in the dry. Forget about it if the roads are wet. An optional traction control system solves this problem; it comes bundled with antilock brakes for $775, and I wouldn't recommend buying a Mustang without it. My test Mustang channeled its power through a 5-speed automatic. Having 5 speeds rather than the traditional 4 gives the Mustang better acceleration and more accessible passing power, however the transmission is slow to downshift, even if you floor the pedal (a problem that plagues most Ford automatics). Once the downshift happens, acceleration is fast and furious. Handling and roadholding are great, though the Mustang tends to wander side-to-side at freeway speeds.

There's one more thing the Mustang does well: Attract attention. Especially if it's painted Screaming Yellow like my test car (I'm not kidding, Ford actually calls it Screaming Yellow). Who can blame people for staring? Consider that the word Mustang appears nowhere on the car, yet everyone, even non-car-types, recognized it. I was smitten with the Mustang from the moment I saw it. Now consider the fact that you can put one of these babies in your driveway for right around $20,000. And whether you opt for the full-on Mustang GT or the bargain-priced Mustang V6, you get power and attitude that goes with the street-fighter styling. Awesome. Great styling, lots of power, fun to drive, and outstanding value-for-money... If this isn't a five-star car, then I don't know what is. I mean, really, could things be any better? Well... wait a minute. The entry-level Mustang Convertible is on its way, with a base price of $24,495. Hmm... Perhaps we have another five-star car in the making.