What do the About.com Rating stars mean? Nissan couldn't have picked a better time to introduce a cut-rate version of their Versa subcompact sedan. The 2009 Versa 1.6 Base was the least-expensive new car in America for a few days, until Hyundai dropped the price of its entry-level Accent. Even so, $9,990 -- actually $10,710 once you add in the Versa's $720 delivery charge -- is pretty darn cheap for a new car. But is this a car you'd actually want to buy? Read on. $10,720 base, $12,115 as tested, EPA fuel economy estimates 24-27 MPG city, 31-34 MPG highway.

Let's talk about what Nissan did to drop the Versa's price from $13,540 (last year's cheapest Versa) to $10,710. For starters, they put in a smaller engine (link goes to photo) -- 1.6 liters and 107 horsepower versus the standard Versa's 122 hp 1.8. The 1.6 liter's manual transmission gets five speeds in place of the 1.8's six. Outside, black plastic trim and body-color window frames replace the regular Versa's chrome trim and black-painted frames. The wheels are smaller -- 14" instead of 15" -- and color choices are limited to white, black, silver and dark blue. Yep, it looks like a cut-rate car -- but the Versa sedan wasn't a particularly good-looking car to begin with, so honestly, this is no big loss. Inside, the Versa has manual door locks, crank-down windows, and no radio -- though it does have four speakers and their associated wiring, so adding tunes is simply a matter of a quick trip to your favorite electronics store. Options are limited to air conditioning ($1,000), automatic transmission ($1,000), antilock brakes ($250), and floor mats ($155). Some of the cost cutting seems a little ridiculous, though. For example, there's no remote trunk release -- not even one of those cheap cable-operated dealios that Japanese cars have had for the last quarter-century. The driver's seat is not height-adjustable, and only the driver's door gets a key lock -- so if you're one of those chivalrous types who likes to unlock and open the passenger's door for your significant other, you're out of luck. (UPDATE: As of 2011, the Versa now has power door locks as standard.)

The Versa 1.6's cabin is pretty much what you'd expect given the price tag: A Spartan, grey-plastic-coated affair with a big plastic plate in the spot where you'd expect to find a radio. But one thing you might not be expecting is the amount of interior space. The front seats have tons of headroom, and the back seat is mind-bogglingly spacious -- even with the front seats adjusted as far back as they will go, there's as much rear leg- and foot-room as you'd expect to find in a compact car, let alone the subcompacts against which the Versa competes. The trunk follows suit: At 13.8 cubic feet, it offers more space than many larger cars, including Nissan's own Sentra. But the rear seat doesn't fold down, which means the Versa doesn't offer the flexibility of low-priced hatchback rivals like the Honda Fit, Toyota Yaris and Hyundai Accent. (Nissan does offer a hatchback Versa, but only in the more-expensive 1.8 S trim.) The Versa's seats are covered in a grey suede-like cloth that looks nice enough, though it seems to generate a lot of static electricity -- every time I got out of the car and touched the door to close it, I got a nasty shock. And while I'm complaining, the Versa hits on a pet peeve of mine: The instrument panel lights turn on with the ignition, rather than with the headlights. A dark instrument panel is the usual night-time cue that your lights are off. The Versa's setup makes it frighteningly easy to drive off at night without switching on the headlights.

For such an inexpensive car, the Versa is surprisingly satisfying to drive. The smaller engine offers more than enough power for a car of this size and weight; the manual-transmission-equipped Versa I tested zipped eagerly away from traffic lights and cruised happily, if a bit noisily, at an indicated 80 MPH. A 4-speed automatic transmission is a $1,000 option, but it's only available in conjunction with air conditioning, which also costs a grand. EPA fuel economy estimates for the 1.6 are 26 MPG city/34 highway for the manual and 26/33 for the automatic, compared to 26/31 and 24/32 for the 1.8 liter Versa. I averaged 34.6 MPG -- impressive, though not as good as the Honda Fit. I suppose the Versa's big, boxy, and not-so-aerodynamic body is to blame, as it is for the fact that the Versa gets tossed around in crosswinds more than other subcompacts. A small price to pay for the Versa's extra room, if you ask me. The Versa rides comfortably and the handling is quick and responsive -- good enough, in fact, that the Versa's quite enjoyable on a curvy road. Electronic stability control isn't offered -- a shame, but no surprise -- but the Versa does come with six airbags and a tire pressure monitoring system. The Versa doesn't come with antilock brakes either, but kudos to Nissan for at least offering them as a cheap ($250) option.

As cheap cars go, the Versa 1.6 is pretty darn good -- it's got tons of room, it's nice to drive, it has a halfway-decent safety resume, and it comes from a manufacturer known for building cars that last. But before you buy one, ask yourself: Does the low price really outweigh the inconveniences? Manual mirrors are a royal pain if you share the car with another driver. Manual door locks make getting your family into and out of the car a major ordeal. And a remote trunk release is one of those things you don't really miss until it's gone. In order to get these features on a Versa, you have to step up to the 1.8 S model and add a host of other options, bringing the price up to $15,085. Even on a 60 month loan, that'll add $75 or more to your payment. If you can't afford to spend that much, you might be better off shopping for a used car. And if you can afford to spend that much, you should check out the $15,420 base-model Honda Fit, which offers more cargo-carrying flexibility, though it lacks the Versa's raw passenger space. If you're committed to buying new on the cheap, the Versa's only real rival is the $10,665 Hyundai Accent GS Base, a 3-door hatchback that matches the Versa's lack of equipment -- but unlike the Versa, if you want any options, you have to by an identical-but-more-expensive version for $1,200 more (plus the cost of the options). Advantage: Versa. Bottom line: The Nissan Versa 1.6 may not be the cheapest new car you can buy, it is the best cheap new car you can buy. -- Aaron Gold Next page: Pros, cons, who should buy it, details and specs