July started out well enough for our long-term Passat: 5,125 miles, still no problems whatsoever, and our fuel economy continuing to rise -- we averaged an unbelievable 40.3 MPG for the month.

And then -- crunch! One of us (who shall remain anonymous) scraped the bottom of the Passat's right-rear door against a telephone pole. This happened as the Passat was being pulled into our car port. It's a tight S-turn that we make two or three times a day. No question, this little dust-up was 100% driver error, but it's an understandable mistake -- the Passat feels so small and tidy that it's easy to forget how much car there is behind the driver's seat.

In getting the Passat repaired, we learned one of the pitfalls of having a brand-new model: Parts availability. The Passat was out of service for three weeks, with most of that spent waiting for the trim piece on the door.

While the Passat was in recovery, I decided to spend a week with a Toyota Prius. Since Robin puts the bulk of the miles on the Passat, I asked her to do the same with the Prius. Over the week, we averaged 46 MPG, quite a bit better than the Passat. But Robin missed the Passat's trunk space -- her massage table barely fit in the back of the Prius -- and the kids (especially Robert, now closing in on 6'2") lamented the lack of back seat room. The space-age driving experience was a nice diversion, but we were still anxious to see our Volkswagen return.

After the Prius came a Honda Pilot, which achieved 18 miles per gallon. That's all I have to say about that.

By the time the Passat came back to us, August was nearly at an end. We only had time to put 613 miles on the car before the 31st, but we were glad to have it back. With a little less highway usage than normal, the Passat averaged 37.2 MPG, pulling our to-date average down slightly to 39.3.

"I forgot how much I liked the Passat," Robin said as we sped down the freeway in the newly-repaired Passat. "It's not all that fancy, but it really is a nice car. And I sure don't miss filling up the Pilot's gas tank every other day. I forgot how often most cars need fuel."

I agreed -- not just because I am a smart husband, but because I really do agree. I criticized the Passat's lackluster interior styling in my full review, but the materials, fit and finish felt a cut above both the Toyota and the Honda.

No question, the Passat's absence made our hearts grow fonder -- but it looks like we're going to have to be without her again. Not two weeks after we got it back, someone backed into it in a parking lot. Hard. The trunk is dented and the bumper cover is scuffed and torn. And they didn't leave a note! (I find that appalling -- I was raised to be honest and take responsibility for my mistakes.) Sigh. Los Angeles may have it in our our Passat TDI, but we're more impressed with the car than ever.

Next: September 2012 update: Likes and dislikes

 Previous: June 2012 update: Getting to know our Passat

 Test index

Starting mileage: 3,232

 Ending mileage: 5,125

 Mileage this month: 1,892.3

 Average fuel economy this month: 40.3 MPG

 Average fuel economy overall: 39.6 MPG

 Repair/service costs this month: $0

 Total repair/service costs: $0

 Problems observed this month: Body damage

Starting mileage: 5,125

 Ending mileage: 5,818

 Mileage this month: 693.0

 Average fuel economy this month: 37.2 MPG

 Average fuel economy overall: 39.3 MPG

 Repair/service costs this month: $0

 Total repair/service costs: $0

 Problems observed this month: None