Whether you’re an expert at swinging from the ceiling vines or a nervous newcomer to the idea of dressing up and getting down, check out these ideas on fantasy sexual role play and open a new world of sexual possibilities.

Parents anxiety about their kids sexuality isn't new. But there are a few particularly modern situations that parents today find themselves in. Several of them have to do with porn. Porn isn't new either, but the ease with which anyone (with Internet access) can find it, and the level of explicitness it offers is. What's also new is that instead of just finding porn (as other parents once did tucked under the bed or in underwear drawers) now parents are stumbling over both the porn sites and the search histories that got their kids there. It may be the dictionary definition of too much information. But there it is. Now you know it, and you've seen some of it and the question becomes: what do you do with that knowledge? Read More: I Found Out My Kid Is Searching for Porn ................................................... ..................................................

Masturbation in our society is something of a paradox. On the one hand, it's the most common sexual act globally and locally. It happens more than any other act and for most of us it's the sexual activity we'll do more than anything else in our lifetime. You'd think this would mean that of all the sex we have, masturbation would be the kind we have the most to say about. But try asking someone what masturbation is. Not how they do it, but in general, what it is. Usually there will be a pause, followed by some embarrassment on being asked to describe something that's so common but so invisible, and quickly the person realizes they haven't done it before. They need to choose the words, and figure out what the essential part of masturbation is. I find when I do this in workshops it opens a discussion about what distinguishes masturbation from other kinds of touch and from other kinds of sex. And once people do start talking about how they masturbate you discover that it's a more diverse practice than you assume. It doesn't always involved the genitals. It doesn't always involve orgasm. People aren't always alone when they do it. So what happens when we put aside our assumptions about what masturbation is, and try to talk about it from scratch? I gave this a try recently: Read More: Masturbation for Everyone ................................................... ..................................................

National Masturbation Month turns 19 this year. Its popularity has waxed and waned, but I like to think of it as the holiday that won't quit. At least not until someone finally creates and markets a line of greeting cards. A few years into the annual celebration, back when I was a member of a sex store worker co-operative, I wrote an article about my own relationship to masturbation for our local alternative weekly newspaper. Today I went back to read it. Aside from cringing at how I wrote 11 years ago I found myself feeling a bit nostalgic. And it got me thinking. Most of the time when we talk about sex we're talking about sex with other people. And when we're asked to recall our sexual histories how often are the askers really asking about our solo sex histories? When do we have time to reflect on what is, for all of us, the longest sexual relationship we'll ever have; the one with ourselves? No better time than the present. In fact looking back seems like a fitting way to look forward to this month full of solo sex and self love. To get your memories flowing I thought I'd offer this short masturbation history questionnaire for you to fill out. As with masturbation, this is meant to be something just for you. Don't put your name on the paper and only share with someone who has asked (and who you trust). 1. What is your earliest memory of masturbation?

 a) How old were you?

 b) Where were you? 

 c) Did anyone notice and if so did they make you feel bad about it? 2. Thinking back 5, 10, 15, or 20 years, how has your masturbation changed:

 a) Did you do it differently?

 b) More or less often?

 c) In different locations?

 d) Were your fantasies different from the ones you have today? 3. What was your most memorable masturbation experience? 4. Do you masturbate more or less when you are in a relationship? Has that changed over time? 5. What's the longest time you've gone without masturbating? Read More - ..................................................

It's hard to believe a year has passed since we last came together to celebrate National Masturbation Month. Of course one of the nice things about this month is that it isn't something we have to do together. Masturbation is primarily a solo activity, even though you might choose to invite someone in, or along, for the ride. And that's what I love about this month. When people find out that I write and teach about sex for a living they expect me to be thinking and talking about people having sex with other people. After all, that's what real sex is, right? Wrong. There are limits to sexual exploration on your own, but of the few gross generalizations I make when talking about sex one of them is that we should all at least start by focusing on ourselves. Whether you have a partner or not, whether you want one or not, if you want to head out on any sexual journey it helps to know where you're starting from. It's not necessary, but it helps. For most of the year I cater to expectations (to a point). Most of what I write about here does have to do with people having sex with each other. But I maintain that some of the best sex any of us have is when we are alone. And I'm happy to have at least one month to indulge in that. Stay tuned all May for more. ................................................... ..................................................