Sexual science and medicine are only beginning to comprehend the range of human sexual expression, and the labels of sexual dysfunction and sexual disorder must be considered in the context of culture and history. Yet many of us experience anxiety and pain related to our sexuality, and it can be helpful to learn about sexual difficulties that can get in the way of healthy sexual expression.

Sexual Dysfunction After Heart Attack

Sexual dysfunction is extremely common following a heart attack. Learn about the causes of sexual dysfunction post-heart attack and treatment options.

Why Does Sex Hurt?

Why does sex hurt? Explains common reasons for painful sex and solutions to reduce pain during sex.

What To Do About Pain During Sex

What can I do if I'm experiencing pain during sex?

Causes of Pain During Sex

Describes both physical and psychological causes of pain during sex.

Anorgasmia - Definition of Anorgasmia

Definition of anorgasmia, an inability to reach orgasm or climax.

What is Vulvodynia - Understanding Vulvodynia and Vulvar Pain

Describes the condition known as vulvodynia or vulvar pain, and the different ways vulvodynia seems to be experienced.

Vulvodynia - Definition Causes Diagnosis & Treatment of Vulvodynia

Profile of the pain disorder Vulvodynia, includes information on causes, diagnosis, and treatment of vulvar pain disorders.

Myths about Premature Ejaculation - Facts and Myths about Premature ...

Answers some of the common myths about premature ejaculation with facts.

Why Do Men Premature Ejaculate? - Understanding Premature Ejaculation

An explanation of the possible reasons for premature ejaculation, ways to control premature ejaculation, and myths about premature ejaculation.

Drugs to Treat Premature Ejaculation

Companies are racing to develop drugs to treat PE, the most common sexual complaint among men.

Learning to Control Premature Ejaculation

Using the start/stop technique to deal with premature ejaculation.

Vaginal Dryness

Explanation of the symptoms and causes of vaginal dryness and the different treatments available for vaginal dryness.

Medications that may Cause Vaginal Dryness

Lists different types of medications that can lead to vaginal dryness. With links to more information on the causes and treatment of vaginal dryness.

Causes of Vaginal Dryness - Common Reasons for Vaginal Dryness

Describes the most common causes of vaginal dryness, with links to more information on medications that may cause vaginal dryness, and treatment options for vaginal dryness.

Treatments for Vaginal Dryness - Treatment Options for Vaginal Dryness

Describes different options for treating vaginal dryness.

What is Lichen Sclerosus - Information about Lichen Sclerosus

Information about lichen sclerosus, a rare skin disorder that can seriously impact sexuality and sexual behavior.

Semen Allergy

Semen allergy is a relatively rare allergic reaction that includes symptoms such as burning and irritation following unprotected sexual intercourse.

Persistent Genital Arousal Disorder (PGAD)

Definition of persistent genital arousal disorder (PGAD), also known as persistent sexual arousal syndrome (PSAS).

Persistent Sexual Arousal Syndrome (PSAS)

Definition of persistent sexual arousal syndrome (PSAS), also known as persistent genital arousal disorder (PGAD).

Spontaneous Orgasms

A rare but documented sexual side effect of some medications, particularly antidepressant drugs, is the experience of spontaneous orgasm.

Priapism - Symptoms, Causes, and Treatments of Priapism

Priapism refers to a prolonged erection in the absence of sexual stimulation. It is considered a urological emergency, and needs to be correctly diagnosed and treated as soon as possible.