The Bcurious is an exciting development in hand held vibrators designed specifically for external clitoral and vulva stimulation. Bcurious feels great in your hand and is easy to control with a single vibration mode button Best of all, Bcurious is durable and rechargeable, so no more throw away toys or batteries. The satin finish on it's hard plastic body gives it a softness that is delightful on the skin with or without lubricant, and it's safe for use around water (although I wouldn't recommend submerging it for extended periods of time). Equally good for using on yourself or on a partner.

Bswish, the maker of the Bcurious vibrator, positions itself as being a "chic" and "hip" sex accessory company, and so far they've been most successful when they have taken classic sex toy designs and added small but significant details. Nicer finishes, sleeker design, more appealing color options. Bcurious is no exception, it offers everything that is great about an external vibrator made for curves (and as such, owes a debt to the Laya Spot and, to a lesser extent, Better Than Chocolate) and improves on some of the drawbacks of its predecessors.

Most notably, Bcurious is rechargeable. It comes with an adapter, takes two hours to charge, and then holds a charge for two hours. This eliminates the need for batteries or to be near an outlet during use. Bcurious has a smoother surface texture than similar butterfly or palm shaped external vibrators, and is a bit pointier in the tip. While this is ultimately a very subjective evaluation, Bcurious also fills us your hand in a noticeably better way than similarly shaped toys. Size-wise it is not as big as some, and bigger than others. It's probably closer to a computer mouse than other toys in this category and so has a familiarity of feel in the hand.

Not everything is better with the Bcurious. The positioning of the push button controls isn't ideal. If they had be shifted slightly they would be easier to control while in use. Also, if the silicone cover for the adapter plug isn't perfectly in place (or if it breaks off, which it will eventually) Bcurious would no longer be waterproof. It isn't quite as powerful as other models. It would certainly be powerful enough for most, but not for all. Lastly, it was a significant oversight to make a rechargeable vibrator without a power lock on it. Even if you're sure the vibrator is run out of juice, I still wouldn't recommend it as a travel sex toy as the risks of it going off in your suitcase are too great compared to choosing another toy to travel with.

But the discreet design will be welcome for folks who want a sex toy that doesn't "look" like a sex toy, and overall Bcurious offers a combination of pretty and powerful that makes is a good choice for anyone who likes external stimulation and wants a vibrator that will last.