Answers to frequently asked questions about sex therapy, including what is sex therapy, who goes to sex therapy, how are sex therapists trained, when is the right time to go to sex therapy, and where can I find a sex therapist.

Sex Therapy FAQ

Everything you want to know about sex therapy before you see a sex therapist.

Why Go To Sex Therapy?

Describes some reasons people go to sex therapy, with links to more information on how to find a therapist, what training sex therapists receive, where to find a therapist in your area, and when to seek help from a sex therapist.

Who Goes to Sex Therapy?

Describes the kinds of people who see sex therapists, and the concerns they may have, with links to more information on how to find a therapist, what training sex therapists receive, where to find a therapist in your area, and when to seek help from a sex therapist.

Do I Have to See a Sex Therapist With My Partner?

Suggestions on how to decide whether to go to sex therapy on your own or with your partner, with links to more information on how to find a therapist, what training sex therapists receive, where to find a therapist in your area, and when to seek help from a sex therapist.

Where Do I Find a Sex Therapist?

Suggestions on how to find a sex therapist in your area, with links to more information on how to find a therapist, what training sex therapists receive, where to find a therapist in your area, and when to seek help from a sex therapist.

How Should I Choose a Sex Therapist?

Suggestions on how to choose a sex therapist, with links to more information on how to find a therapist, what training sex therapists receive, where to find a therapist in your area, and when to seek help from a sex therapist.

What Training Do Sex Therapists Have?

A description of what sort of training sex therapists receive, with links to more information on how to find a therapist, what training sex therapists receive, where to find a therapist in your area, and when to seek help from a sex therapist.

When Is the Right Time for Sex Therapy?

Suggestions on when to choose to seek out a sex therapist, with links to more information on how to find a therapist, what training sex therapists receive, where to find a therapist in your area, and when to seek help from a sex therapist.

Erectile Dysfunction Therapy

Information about sex therapy options for treatment of erectile dysfunction.