The term heteronormative or heteronormativity sounds a bit technical and maybe academic, but it is worth learning about as it describes something that has simple and profound impacts on all of us.  Heteronormativity refers to a series of assumptions or biases in most communities and cultures that being heterosexual is the standard or normal orientation, and all other sexual identities or orientations (gay, lesbian, bisexual, queer, etc...) are understood to be deviant, abnormal, and less preferred.

Heteronormativity permeates all aspects of our lives, from the way our health care is delivered to how we talk with co-workers to the way we educate children about friendships, relationships, and normative development.  When we assume that a man who is married has a wife or that a young girl with a crush must have it on a boy we are drawing on heteronormative assumptions.

That most of us would assume a stranger to be heterosexual unless there is information that contradicts that, is connected to the influence of heteronormativity in our every day thoughts.

Heteronormativity impacts everyone, regardless of sexual orientation or identity, because it distorts our perception so that we don't see the world and other people as they are, but rather as we presume them to be.

While it makes sense to talk about people as being influenced by, or acting through heteronormative bias, it makes less sense to say that someone is themselves heteronormative.  It isn't an identity that only some people have, it's something we all are influenced by to a greater or lesser degeree, and in some ways we all act on these assumptions.

While heteronormativity may cause more trouble for people who aren't straight (an experience often referred to as heterosexism) it's something all of us are influenced by, regardless of our gender or sexual identity or orientation.  Someone who is gay or lesbian, queer or trans may act out and through heteronormativity as well as someone who is straight.

An example from queer and trans* communities is the experience some people have when they are in a same sex relationship and their partner transitions to a different gender.  Take the example of two women who are in a romantic and sexual relationship when one transitions to identify as male or a man.  The partner who hasn't transitioned, who essentially signed up for a non-heterosexual relationship, now may be read in public - by strangers, but also by friends and family - as heterosexual. After all she is a woman in a relationship with a man.   That identity may or may not fit for her, but either way she may begin to experience heteronormative assumptions very differently as now she is included in the "us" and not the "them."

This is not usually a pleasant experience (although in some situations it can make life easier as one is less subjected to staring or harassment on the street) and it's one that can be difficult to talk about.  This too is an effect of heteronormativity, because the assumptions are that we do fit easily into one of a few categories, and we never leave them.

Our behaviors are heavily influenced by heteronormativity.  When a young man sits down with a doctor to ask questions about sex and the doctor begins to talk about birth control, making the assumption that the young man is going to be having sex with a woman, and that the sex will involve intercourse, that doctor is making a heteronormative assumption which can have a big impact on the health of the young man in front of him.

Similarly, the assumption that all men are attracted to women and all woman are attracted to men and that "real sex" involves penile-vaginal intercourse can lead many people to ignore or play down their own desires and fit their behaviors into the expected norms.

Heteronormativity includes certain behaviors and ways of being, but these behaviors are not always heteronormative. While penile-vaginal intercourse is part of heteronormative assumptions, it's also something that can be practiced in ways that resist heteronormativity.

Just as there's a difference between gender identity (how we understand and experience our own gender) and sexual orientation (referring to the gender of the people we want to be sexual with) there is a difference between sexual activities (what we do when we have sex) and what those activities mean to us as we are doing them.

Some people describe sex they have had as heteronormative, and those descriptions usually refer to sex that follows the rules and assumptions about binary gender dynamics, power, and desire (e.g. that intercourse is the best part of sex, that it always ends with intercourse and must include an orgasm, that the man is on top and the woman on bottom, etc...).

This may be an accurate description in the specific, but it cannot be generalized to others. Describing your own sex life as heteronormative is different than saying someone else's is.  No matter what sex "looks like" from the outside, what it means can only be described by those on the inside.

Usually when the term is used, it's meant to be at least a little bit negative.  And when we don't consider heteronormative bias and instead move through the world making assumptions about people which will often be incorrect, that doesn't seem like a respectful or just way to treat others.

But at the same time some people choose to live their lives in a way that is as close to the center as possible, in other words they very much aspire to the heteronormative ideals.  While none of us can every really fit all of these, if it's someone's choice, it seems equally disrespectful to say the choice is wrong.