Make Me Over is part of the Bedroom Kandi line of vibrators, inspired by entrepreneur,singer-songwriter, and Real Housewives of Atlanta star Kandi Burruss and brought into being by interactive sex toy manufacturer OhMiBod . Convincingly packaged as a make up compact, Make Me Over offers greater power than most discreet vibrators that usually sacrifice strength for stealth. The design and handling won't work for everyone, but for make up fetishists and lovers of non-phallic silicone vibrators, Make Me Over will be a welcome addition to any toy kit.

The massager itself is around 3" wide and about 1" thick. The back is made of ABS plastic and has a soft rubber strap that allows the vibe to strap onto your hand. The front is a soft, textured silicone . A seven speed/function motor is powered by a rechargeable battery. The motor is controlled with two simple push buttons that are on the back of the vibrator. The vibrator will run for around 1 1/2 hours before it needs to be recharged, and charging takes 2-3 hours. Make Me Over comes in a sleek, hard plastic compact case (complete with a mirror in the lid), and one of the nice design touches is that the vibrator charges whenever it's in the case, as long as the case is plugged in. It's important to note that this vibrator only has a USB charger, so to charge you need to plug the case into any USB outlet (cord is included). The manufacturer describes the toy as "splash proof" which usually means that it won't break if you get a bit of water on it, but it isn't meant to be submerged during use or cleaning. The toy comes with a one year warranty from the manufacturer.

Make Me Over is designed for external clitoral stimulation . It's a good option for both solo and partner play. The vibrations are distributed evenly around large circular face of the toy, but you can also stimulate specific areas by angling to the toy, and using the edge of the toy. The design is nice in that it easily allows you to apply pressure, which you can experiment with as some people like the feeling of vibration alone, and others like the pressure as much, if not more, than the vibration. The push button controls are probably the most annoying part of the vibrator and it's much easier to turn the toy on and find the right setting before you slip your hand through the strap and begin using the toy. Use the toy to explore not only genital stimulation but overall physical response to vibrator. If you put a little bit of lubricant on the face of the toy (never use silicone-based lubricant) it can actually become a passable massage tool.

Make Me Over is not intended for insertion. Using externally, cleaning can be done by wiping the toy down with a cloth with warm water and mild soap. But sure to let the toy dry before putting it back in it's case to charge. In the center of the toy there is a metal connector for charging. This connector is recessed so you don't feel the metal during use, but it makes sense to avoid exposing the center of the toy to body fluids or water during cleaning. When you use the toy you'll see this isn't a major problem, just something to be aware of. Because the soft part of the toy is made from silicone you should never use a silicone-based lubricant as this will destroy the integrity of the soft silicone and render the vibrator unusable. Don't immerse the toy in water as this will likely break the toy.