Masturbation is, hands down, te most common sexual activity on the planet.  For many people it is also the sexual act they will engage in most in their lives. You may not think of masturbation as sex, but by most measures it is.  It involves connection, touch, bodily pleasure.  It facilitates bonding, gets the heart racing, often ends in a climax.  The list goes on.  But there's a paradox to the ubiquity of masturbation as a sexual practice.  It may be one of the most universally engaged in sexual behaviors, but it's also the one we talk about the least.

As a result many of us think that masturbation comes easily or "naturally."  And most of us take it for granted that we know what masturbation means. As an educator I spend a lot of time explaining that the word masturbation doesn't just mean touching your genitals.

Masturbation is about doing something for ourselves, to, and with, our own body to feel good.  The word masturbation is useful in part because it carves out an activity that is intentional (whether or not that intention is conscious).

Most people masturbate by touching their genitals. But not every one does.  Some of us don't focus on our genitals because they aren't parts of our body that feel good (physically, emotionally, or otherwise).  Some of us are bored of focusing on one area and want to give the rest of our body a chance to respond to attention and touch.

But sex guides rarely talk about this.  Most contribute to a narrow masturbatory path.  They describe male masturbation and female masturbation, assuming that all women's bodies are the same, all men's bodies are the same, and all masturbation is about the genitals.

There's an idea that the way most people do things is the "normal" way, or the right way, or the way we should all be doing a thing.  When it comes to sexuality the word "most" is, in my opinion, a red herring.  All that word means is that we counted and more than half the people we asked do something one way.  When it comes to your sex life, I would encourage you to ask "so what?"

Sex guides and experts get away with talking about most as if it means right because for many people it's enough to "work."  But for many more it doesn't and I'd like us to ask another question:  why should we stop at what "works"?  Sexual exploration isn't primarily about work or function.  It's about feeling and experience, about knowing and learning.  This has nothing to do with reproduction or procreation.

So in the spirit of what masturbation can be, below is a guide to masturbation for everyone.  It doesn't matter who you are, how you identify, what you have, what you call yourself or your body parts, or what you like.  The only thing you need is an interest in learning more about your own sexuality, your sexual body, feelings, and response.

1. Find Some Parts You Like

 Masturbation is about making your body feel good.  Feeling good means different things to different people, so don't focus at this point on whether or not your feeling good looks like what you've seen or feels like what you've heard about others.  In fact start with something even more basic:  Are there parts of your body you like?

Few of us can say this about our whole bodies.  But most of us have at least a few parts we feel affection for.  Maybe not every day, but remember, we're setting aside perfection and we're acknowledging that what we learn is sexy is rarely who we are.  Sexy, we're told, is skinny, white, rich (or at least middle class).  Sexy is time to go to the gym, to get your nails done, to only wear clothes that are torn on purpose, etc…  Some of this may fit for you but chances are most or all of it doesn't.  So get back to yourself. Ultimately you want to find your own idea of sexy.

Identify a few parts of your body that you feel good about at least some of the time.  Now think a bit about why:

Why is this important?

 When you are bombarded from an early age with messages about what is beautiful and you never see yourself there, it's hard to counter that.  If you live with pain in your body (which way more of us do then we admit) it can be hard to think about your body as something fun or sexy.  Finally, for some of us we don't just get the message that our body doesn't look the way it should, we are told in a variety of ways that we have the wrong body.

Some of us are born with body parts that are usually thought of as being male, but we're women.  Some of us are born with body parts thought of as female but we're men.  Lots of us don't feel like those categories work at all.  The answer of course isn't that there's something wrong with us, the answer is that there's something wrong with what we're being fed.  And it's not only in our food, it's in the air we breathe.

So this first step, which happens before you even start touching, can take time.  If you want a more detailed approach try this guide to your own sexual anatomy.



 2.  Make Space for Something New

 If you're reading this you are probably looking for something new.  Maybe it's an orgasm you've never had.  Maybe it's a thought or a feeling or an energy you want more of in your life.  Whatever it is, it's something other than what's happening in your daily life and you need to make some room for something new to happen.  Some people think about this in terms of safety.  Masturbation requires relaxation and you may find it easier to relax if you feel safe.  But safety is different for everyone, and it's not a requirement (people masturbate in prisons and other institutional settings all the time, and those aren't safe places).

Instead, take some time to think about the touch you have in your life.  We tend to take touching for granted. People touch us, we touch others, and unless it's marked as violence or as sex we usually don't give it much thought.  But touching matters.

Think about the ways people touch you, the way you touch others, and what is missing from that.

 Take some time to think about the ways you are touched with and without permission.  Unwanted touching can be anything from annoying to traumatic, and it is different in each situation and for each person.

And think about what would help you make space for something new.

If that last question seems strange given that we're talking about masturbation, you need to forget about what masturbation is supposed to be and check in with yourself about what it would look like for you to be able to do this.  Masturbation might very well include someone else being present.

Why is this important?

 Our bodies are not all treated the same way.  If you're a person of color, someone from a racialized community, someone who is aboriginal or First Nations, if you're read as gender non-conforming, or fat, or disabled, your body IS treated differently in the world, and that includes the ways it does and does not get touched by others.  It's not just about bodies on the margins either.

If you are read as a man on the street you will also be touched differently and targeted for violence in different kinds of ways.  And of course none of us are just one of these things.  Our multiple identities mean that we have an experience of touch in the world that is not exactly like any one elses experience.  This isn't about being individual, since these things happen in systems, but it is important to unpack some of your own history of touching and being touched as a way of making space for a different kind of touch which is why we're here.  If you can put it out on the table it can clear some space for you to feel more, tune in more.



 3.  Pay Attention to Your Breath

 Breathing is something all of us can bring an awareness to (whether or not we have complete control over our breathing). It is a powerful tool when it comes to experiencing touch.  We can hold our breath, building up a sense of tension in our bodies and anticipation of the release and relief that will come when we resume breathing.  We can slow our breathing down, breathe in time with an internal rhythm or an external reference point like touch.  We can focus on our breathing as a way of relaxing our body and tuning out other things going on around us.

Most of us can also use breath to literally touch ourselves.  We can purse our lips and blow a thin stream of air against our skin that can feel cold.  We can breath hot air against our skin and warm ourselves up.

Breathing can also change the way that touch feels.  If you've ever done any stretching or yoga type exercise, you know that breathing into a stretch not only changes the way the stretch feels in your muscles, it changes how much you can stretch.  Learn more about breath and sex.



 4. Touch Yourself

 Start with the parts of your body you've already identified as parts that feel good or parts you like.  Try not to focus on a goal, like having an orgasm, or any outcome other than feeling good.  If it works for you, you can touch yourself with your fingers and hands, but you can also touch yourself by rubbing one part of your body against another part.  You can use the back of your hand and not your fingers.  You can touch yourself using some other object, a tool, a toy, whatever allows you to intentionally stimulate a part of your body that feels good.  You can also use objects to rub yourself against or on.  Some visual jokes (like those about washing machines and shower heads) are old for a good reason.  Just avoid experimenting with these in public laundromats (or public showers for that matter).  Safety first!

If you're trying with touch, start slowly and with one kind of touch.  Pay attention to what it feels like in your body. First focus on the body part itself.  For example if you're touching your belly, what does the touch feel like on your skin, on your belly?  Next, pull your attention back a bit and notice what it feels like deeper in your body and further away from the place you are touching.  Do thoughts and feelings come to mind?  Do you notice anything different in how the rest of your body is feeling?

5. Touch Without Physical Contact

 Have you ever had the feeling that someone is watching you?  Have you ever connected with someone and felt something, even though you're only talking to each other, looking at each other, or even just sharing space?   We can talk about that as being touched, even though no physical contact is happening.  We can be touched by other and touch other people without physical contact.  It's not that it's the same thing but it is undeniable that we can give and receive physical pleasure through means other than physical touch.

If touching yourself physically isn't an option (either because you can't physically do it or it doesn't feel safe or comfortable) you can focus your mind and your attention on the part of your body you've chosen.   Here are a few things you can try.

Starting with a part of your body you like, imagine it in your mind.  Picture it from the outside, what it looks like to someone who isn't you.  Picture it from your own perspective.  What do you notice about it?  Is the skin soft? Is it rough or hard?  Are there bumps or grooves?  How and where does that part stop and another part begin?

Now try to imagine that part from the inside.  Imagine the arteries, veins, and nerves that are in, and under, the skin.  This isn't just one of your parts, it's a part of you.  How does it feel right now?  If it's a part that is sometimes covered by clothing, what does that feel like?  Imagine yourself touching this part.  What kind of touch would you use?  What would it feel like?  Using your breath, pay attention to how the part feels as you breath in and out.  The tips below can all be adapted to touching without physical contact, so keep reading and see if you can use any of the next steps to further explore.

6.  Touch Outside the Box

 Most of us have ideas already about what masturbation is supposed to look like.  Guys masturbate using an up-and-down motion that simulates an in-and-out activity.  Women may think that their masturbation is supposed to be gentler or more subtle.  All rubbing and circles.  These are based on the oldest and least helpful stereotypes about gender and about sex.  They suggest that all masturbation is, is a simulation of penile-vaginal intercourse.

Of course sex is much more than intercourse, and masturbation is not a substitute for the "real thing." When you do it well, it's plenty real.   These stereotypes aren't only about gender and orientation, they are about bodies too.  They tell us what is supposed to feel good.  What you're doing here is learning about what actually feels good in your body.

So experiment with all different kinds of touch: light, firm, in circles, back and forth, patting, smacking, thumping.  You may find that doing a certain kind of motion is itself a turn on, in addition to how the stimulation it is creating feels. If it feels silly, try it anyway.  If you catch yourself laughing at yourself while masturbating, that may be exactly the thing you need to do.



 7. Find Your Hot Spots

 In this context hot means good.  For many people, maybe most people, their genitals are where they have a kind of sensation that turns them on and gets them off.  This isn't the case for everyone and just as importantly, we don't each have one spot that works all the time. Once you've got to the point where you can touch at least some parts of your body just to feel good, if your goal is to deepen your sexual pleasure, with or without orgasm, you'll want to start exploring your body to find out where those buttons are for you.

It's important to know that these can be anywhere and they change over time.  It's not like you find a magic button and then you're set for the rest of your life.  Well, for some people it might be like that. But for other people it isn't.

Doctors and sex researchers tend to focus only on the parts of your body with high concentrations of nerve endings. Which often brings us to our genitals.  But nerve endings don't exist in isolation.  You may have plenty of nerve endings that are ready to fire, but if they are in a part of your body that has always been associated with shame or guilt or confusion no amount of stimulation is going to feel good.  Some of us discover these hot spots while having sex with other people.  Some of us need to find them on our own first.

Either way, it's hard to find them if you aren't already able to touch yourself somewhere to feel good.  Which is why this is down here at step #7.  If you skipped ahead and started here you might be fine, but I'd recommend starting at #1.



 8. Play Around the Edges

 The intensity of pleasure and excitement that can be part of masturbation has a lot to do with building excitement and anticipation in your body.  Discovering where and how touching yourself can go from feeling good to euphoric to too much  is part of the joys of masturbation.

When you're touching yourself, try to pay attention to the feelings you have that make you want to touch yourself more, harder, or faster.  You can influence this through breathing.  Holding your breath can build up tension, and releasing it can release that tension. Breathing deep into your belly is different from shallow breathing in your chest.

If orgasm is a goal, imagine what you're doing as working toward a peak.  For some people this will just happen.  Other people need to teach their body the process, or at least show it what's possible if you haven't felt it before.   This process of finding your own lines and edges of pleasure is similar to the partnered sexual behavior called edging, which focuses on bringing someone to the edge of intense pleasure and then pulling them back.

9. Don't Just Move Your Hands

 Move your whole body in whatever ways you can.  Many of us lie motionless while masturbating because our earliest experiences were in secret and we were afraid to be found out.  This kind of literal repression, while sexy at times, can also stifle a lot of potential pleasure.  Move your body in unexpected ways.  Let your legs flop around, try different positions, sitting, standing, kneeling, and lying down.  It won't be good for everyone, but try to get your whole body in the act to see how that shakes things up.

10.  More Touching Tips

 If you're interested in tips on touching genitals you may want to check out this guide to penises (or this one for soft penises), this one to the clitoris, or this one for anal masturbation.  Each goes into greater details about the many ways to grab, squeeze, pinch, caress, and otherwise arouse yourself by yourself.

11.  Going Inside

 So far we've only covered touch on the outside of your body.  Some people enjoy penetration as part of masturbation.  Some people with vaginas do enjoy penetration (which may be providing g-spot stimulation).  People also enjoy anal penetration.

If your body has a penis, you may be interested in reading up about  two other kinds of penetration.  In a recommended and detailed zine called Fucking Trans Women, Mira Bellwether either coined or popularized the term 'muffing' to describe a kind of penetration play that involves the inguinal canals (which are in the body sort of beside and behind the penis).  Another sort of penetration that gets talked about in BDSM communities (although dominance or submission, and consensual pain are not necessary parts of it) involves penetrating the urethra using special toys called sounds, designed for that purpose.

12. Getting to Orgasm

 If you are someone who already experiences orgasms but you want more, there are ways you can build better orgasms.  If you aren't having orgasms and you'd like to have them, it might be possible and it might not be.  I start with that because one thing that we know doesn't help with orgasms is pressure and expectation.  Your body might respond to stimulation in a way that looks like an orgasm if scientists measured it, but a key feature of an orgasm is the subjective experience of pleasure.  To feel that, you need to be able to focus on your own sensations, your own body.  Other people say you also need to be able to let go.

In other words all the technique in the world may not do it.  You can start by trying to figure out why you can't orgasm.  It may be that you need more stimulation or a different kind of stimulation. It may be that you need to feel more comfortable or safer.  It might be that you need to be more distracted.  The only way to figure this out is by trying stuff out.  So if you skipped ahead to this point, now would be a good time to go back to step #1.

13.  Fantasy

 If part of the barrier for you to pleasureable masturbation is that you have a hard time tuning into your body engaging in a lot of sexual fantasy may make that situation worse.  On the other hand sexual fantasy can be a great way to get your arousal going, and if you find yourself feeling nervous or freezing up when you think about masturbation, it may be that starting with a fantasy will allow for relaxation and distraction.

The bottom line is that there's no right or wrong when it comes to fantasy during masturbation.  For some people masturbation will begin with a fantasy that has already got you turned on.  For others, the touching and self-pleasuring comes first and fantasy is what comes to mind during masturbation.

Either way it's worth noting what fantasies you have and thinking about what they may be showing you about your own desires.  Having a sexual fantasy doesn't mean we want to act the fantasy out in real life.  But it can point to feelings and desires underneath the particular scenario which may be worth exploring later.

14.  Extras:  Sex Toys, Lube, Porn

 For some of us these aren't so much extras as featured actors in our play.  Sex toys can provide us with a kind of consistent and strong stimulation we can't give ourselves.  Sex toys can also add to a fantasy that someone else is with us.  The sex toy industry has expanded so much that it's rare not to be able to find a toy that fits for you and your body.  If you aren't sure where to start, there are a handful of excellent sex shops that offer judgement free advice and the benefit of decades of experience matching people and toys.

There aren't many things that are almost universal when it comes to tips for masturbation.  But lubricant is may be one of them.  With few exceptions making something wetter is going to also make it feel better (and many report that they simply feel more when they use lube).    The trick is to find the right lubricant for you.

Finally a word about porn.  Like sexual fantasy, it can be easy for porn to distract us from paying attention to our own bodies and our own responses. Unlike fantasy, porn has an added layer of handing us some one elses fantasy.  Because most mainstream porn is lacking in creativity or originality (and is often full of negative messages and stereotypes about all sorts of people) for people who are trying to explore their bodies on their own terms, I tend to suggest putting away the porn at least for a while.

This guide was written in a particular way so that it might apply to any one. This means, of course, that it lacks a lot of specifics.  If you have questions about masturbation that aren't covered above you are always welcome to contact me through this website and I'll do my best to offer specific suggestions or resources.