Statistics on vibrator use, different kinds of vibrators for sex play, tips on choosing vibrators, how to use vibrators, plus product reviews of vibrators and vibrator sex and safety tips.

Rabbit Vibrators

Rabbit vibrators are a category of dual action vibrator that provide simultaneous clitoral stimulation and vaginal penetration. Made famous by Sex in the City, rabbit vibrators have long had a loyal fan base. They aren't for everyone, but those who love rabbit vibrators love them a lot.

The Who, Where, and How of Vibrator Use Statistics

Research on vibrator use including how many people use vibrators, and the demographics of vibrator users.

Vibrator Guide

A visual guide to different styles and brands of vibrators including the rabbit vibrator, electric vibrator, wearable and remote vibrators, and different kinds of battery vibrators.

Vibrator Quiz

Vibrators are by far the most popular and widely available sex toy. But despite what many think, all vibrators are not created equal, and finding the best vibrator for you depends on many factors. The more you know about vibrators, how they work and what recommends one vibrator over another, the better you'll be at finding the right vibe for you.

All About Vibrators

Vibrators are the most popular selling sex toy in the world. This guide offers tips on choosing the right vibrator, buying a vibrator without being ripped off, and ways of using vibrators for men, women, and couples.

Who Uses Vibrators?

Research on who uses vibrators, how many people use vibrators, and the demographics of vibrator users.

Why Should I Use a Vibrator?

Some good and bad reasons people use vibrators.

Electric Vibrators versus Battery Vibrators

Explains the pros and cons of electric vibrators versus battery vibrators for anyone considering which kind of vibrator to buy.

Electric Vibrators

Explains the benefits and drawbacks of electric vibrators and the different styles of electric vibrators including wand style, coil style, and rechargeable electric vibrators.

Battery Vibrators

Explains the benefits and drawbacks of battery vibrators and the different styles of battery vibrators including dual action battery vibrators, g spot battery vibrators, wearable and remote control vibrators, and more.

Can I become addicted to my vibrator?

There is no evidence to suggest that people become addicted to vibrators. Offers an explanation as to why vibrator addiction doesn't exist.

Can vibrators harm sexual sensitivity or orgasm?

Answers the question: Does long term vibrator use cause any sensitivity problems or orgasmic difficulties?

Extending the Life of Your Vibrator

Five ways to increase the lifespan of your battery powered vibrator.

How to Fix a Battery Powered Vibrator

A step by step guide to fixing common problems with battery powered vibrators.

Vibrator Quiz

Vibrators are by far the most popular and widely available sex toy. But despite what many think, all vibrators are not created equal, and finding the best vibrator for you depends on many factors. The more you know about vibrators, how they work and what recommends one vibrator over another, the better you'll be at finding the right vibe for you.