There's something generic about Trojan vibrators. Generic isn't necessarily bad. Think of generic drugs for example, which are just about the only ones most of us can afford to take any more. Think of the generic versions of your favorite junk food. Hard to tell the difference. But generic has an anonymous feeling, and usually lacks the kind of attention to detail that may be more evident, and is certainly more appreciated, when the product we're talking about is a vibrator and not a bag of no-name Cheetos. Which brings me to the Trojan Midnight Multi-Position 5.3 vibrator. The toy is generic, but not unsatisfying. In fact elements of the design and functionality feel almost inspired. It's too bad that in cutting corners this newest entry in the Trojan line only comes close to greatness. Whether or not close should count with vibrators is a decision I'll leave up to you.

The name is presumably a reference to the vibrator's 5 levels and 3 patterns of vibration, which are accessed through a simple push button switch at the base of the toy. The switch has a plus and a minus side, press the plus side to cycle through the eight options. Press the minus side to cycle back down. Press and hold the minus and the vibrator shuts off. In most other ways the Midnight Multi-Position is like so many hard plastic battery powered vibrators. It doesn't look particularly exciting, and holding it in your hand doesn't offer much. It's suitable for both penetration and external stimulation. But there are two notable differences with the Midnight Multi-Position. First, there's a seam in the center of the toy that allows you to twist the base and the tip in four positions moving from a crescent shape to an s shape. This is advertised as being good for g-spot stimulation although it's really just one of many reasons having a flexible but firm vibrator is a nice thing to have. A second welcome difference is the silicone finish on the business end of the vibrator. The vibrator is powered by two AA batteries (included) and is fully waterproof, making it safe to use in the shower or bath and much easier to clean. The battery compartment is in the handle. The vibrator also comes with a "discreet silk pouch".

If there is magic in this toy, it lies in its length and curve. When used alone for clitoral stimulation the vibrator fits snugly between the legs and the curve hugs the body. Subtle adjustments can be made by changing position, squeezing your legs tighter, or rocking or otherwise moving your body. While the handle end of the vibrator is not safe for penetration, the vibration does flow into it. This allows for the vibrator to fit between two partners, easily providing external stimulation for both. The design also works well for hand held use either alone or on a partner. The switch is easy to access during use so changing the vibrator speed can be done. Just make sure to press the right button, since powering down when you want to go up can be as disappointing as powering up when you want to go down is jarring. The manufacturer warns that you should not try to rotate the vibrator to adjust it's angle while it is inserted. This seems like a reasonable precaution as rotating is best accomplished with a hand on either end of the toy.

The Multi-Position is immersible and easy to clean with warm water and a mild soap. Even though the toy is immersible and one side is silicone, it should not be boiled in water (as the internal mechanisms can be damaged by the heat). Always take the batteries out when the vibrator is not in use. This avoids the possibility of battery corrosion damaging the connections. The end of the vibrator is made from silicone, so silicone based lubricants should never be used with the Trojan Multi-Position 5.3.