The Laya Spot is one of those vibrators I find myself coming back to again and again when asked to recommend toys for friends. It does what it's meant to do (provide external stimulation) consistently, durably and, like all Fun Factory toys, with a colorful sense of fun. Compact and discreet in design, Laya Spot is perfect for travelers and/or anyone who has a lack of privacy. It's hand held design also allows it to be used for manual massage and easily integrates your own touch into the stimulation from the motor.

Laya Spot is one of those vibrators that everyone who likes external vibration should, eventually, own. It's amazingly durable, it's simple to use and does exactly what it should. It's compact, discreet, and powerful. Because it's a Fun Factory product it also comes in a dizzying array of colors, each one brighter and cuter than the next.

When it was first released, Laya Spot offered three innovations to standard external vibrators which still recommend it for most vibrator lovers. The shape is designed primarily for vulva and clitoral stimulation. It fits nicely in the hills and valleys of the pubic area and provides more surface stimulation than classic clitoral vibrators like the Silver Bullet vibrator or Pocket Rocket. The design also took the ergonomics of a hand held vibrator into account. It fits comfortably in the palm of the hand and allows the user to easily apply as much or as little pressure as they choose. Finally, the practical push buttons allow the user to control the speed without forever fumbling with a dial, and insures that once selected, the desired speed won't change while in use.

The Laya Spot vibrator wouldn't be good for are folks who like penetration. Laya Spot is only made for external stimulation. It also requires you to hold the toy in your hand so it's not particularly accessible, and while it's easy to use on yourself or on a partner, it isn't very functional as a vibrator for two or more people at once.

Fun Factory is known as a company that isn't afraid to try new things, and sometimes their designs fail. But they are also smart enough to know when they've hit on a winner and not to mess with it. To their credit the only changes they've made to the Laya Spot vibrator over the years have been minor material and color changes. If we're lucky they will continue making the Laya for years to come.