There is a lot of pressure to be sexual in the “right” way, and some people feel like they should use a vibrator. The fact is that you can have an incredible sex life without vibrators or sex toys at all. That said, using vibrators is a completely healthy (and potentially pleasure inducing) way to explore your sexuality.

There are as many reasons to use a vibrator as there are reasons to feel good. Here are some of the most common reasons people play with vibrators:

Curiosity:Sexual curiosity is healthy; wanting to try a vibrator is reason enough to try one.

Self-discovery: Particularly for those of us who have never been given the opportunity or permission to explore being sexual, vibrators can be a great way to explore your body. When using a vibrator by yourself you can start exploring yourself, your sensations (both physical and emotional) and reactions in a relatively safe environment.

To “spice up” a long term sexual relationship:Vibrators can shake things up (literally and figuratively) in a long term relationship if sex has become routine or exploration has fizzled out.

To experience orgasm for the first time: For many people, especially women, who never or rarely experience orgasm, vibration can be the fastest and easiest way to discover their orgasmic potential.

For extra stimulation that you can’t add on your own:Many people aren’t able to stimulate themselves the way they want to. Chronic pain, disability, and fatigue don’t stop you from feeling pleasure, but vibrators can sometimes make it easier to get there.

For fun:For the most part the reason we all use, or consider using, vibrators is the same: because it's pleasurable. Pleasure, however you define it, is pretty close to a universal desire.

Pressure:This is NOT a good reason to use toys, but it’s why some people do. Whether your partner is well meaning or not, if you’re being pressured to try using a vibrator it won’t work, and it shows a lack of respect of your boundaries. Vibrators are ultimately about feeling pleasure, and you can’t force someone to experience pleasure, because experiencing pleasure is in some ways an expression of free will. Everyone has the right to say no to using a vibrator, just as we all have the right to say no to any kind of sex play at any time.