Explore your entire body from a sexual perspective. Includes information on sexual anatomy and response, sexual desire and libido.

Premature Ejaculation

Everything you wanted to know about premature ejaculation but might be embarrassed to ask.

Sex Sounds

Only a few brave researchers have ventured into the territory of human sexual sounds. Here's what we know.

Unexpected Orgasms

There are several types of orgasms that fall outside of standard textbook descriptions of an orgasm in terms of when, where, and how they occur. These orgasms can be considered unexpected orgasms.

Sexual Exploration

Thoughts on the difficulty of exploring new sexual possibilities without comparing yourself unfavourably to others.

Anatomy of Intercourse

The anatomy of intercourse research from Leonardo da Vinci to Masters and Johnson to MRI and 3D ultrasound imaging.

What is Sexual Response?

Description of human sexual response, the benefits and drawbacks of thinking of sexual experience using a multi-stage model of sexual response.

Breastfeeding and Sexuality

Breastfeeding can, and often does, impact your sex life and experience of sexuality. Learn about the relationship between breastfeeding and sexuality, and get tips on how to manage changes in a way that leads to better sex.

What is an orgasm?

What is orgasm, and how is it defined by science and culture? Better than single definitions are multi-dimensional explanations of orgasm.

Sex and Aging

Resources and information about aging and sexuality, including how our bodies change as we age, how our thoughts and feelings change as we age, and places to find more information about sex and aging.

Physical Sexual Changes and Aging

Discussion of how our bodies may change as we age, and the impact these changes can have on our sexuality.

Priapism - Symptoms, Causes, and Treatments of Priapism

Priapism refers to a prolonged erection in the absence of sexual stimulation. It is considered a urological emergency, and needs to be correctly diagnosed and treated as soon as possible.

Causes of Pain During Sex

Describes both physical and psychological causes of pain during sex.

Anus Male Sexual Anatomy

Description of the anus and rectum, and the part they play in sexual anatomy and response.

Dealing With Painful Sex

Tips on reducing pain during sex.

What is Lichen Sclerosus

Information about lichen sclerosus, a rare skin disorder that can seriously impact sexuality and sexual behavior.

Kegel Exercises

Answers to commonly asked questions about Kegel exercises, including what they are, who should do them, and how to do them.

How To do Kegel Exercises

Step by step instructions on doing kegel exercises.

Where Is My PC Muscle?

Learn how to locate and isolate your PC muscle.

Increasing Amount of Semen

What to make of those products that promise to increase your semen volume, and why you shouldn't care in the first place.