What is the relationship between some drugs and sex? Which drugs improve sex, and which drugs make sex worse? Explanations of drugs designed to improve sexual function, and what sexual side effects can be expected from drugs.

Flibanserin

Information on Flibanserin, an experimental drug being studied to treat low sexual desire in women.

Female Viagra

Some history and critique of the term female Viagra, and the reporting on the search for the first big drug to treat women's sexual complaints.

Sexual Side Effects of Medications

Ideas on understanding the sexual side effects of medications.

Sex and Alcohol

What are the sex effects of alcohol? Subjective reports and laboratory research explain the negative and positive sex effects of alcohol.

Sex and SSRIs

Describes the sexual side effects of antidepressant medications known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).

Sex and Ecstasy

What are the sex effects of Ecstasy (also called MDMA)? Subjective reports and laboratory research explain the negative and positive sex effects of Ecstasy.

Sex and Marijuana

Describes the positive and negative sex effects of marijuana. While many people, women in particular, find marijuana has positive effects on sexual arousal and behavior, if taken in larger amounts marijuana can severely dampen sex.

Managing Sexual Side Effects of Medication

Ideas on managing the sexual side effects of prescription medications

Physical Sexual Side Effects of Medications

Describes a variety of physical sexual side effects of medication, from erectile dysfunction to changes in orgasm to body image changes and changes in the experience of pain.

Medication and Sexual Side Effects

Men and women alike have found that prescription drugs and over-the-counter (OTC) medications can cause sexual dysfunction, with side effects ranging from erectile dysfunction (ED) and menstrual irregularities to lack of libido and anorgasmia (the inability to experience orgasm).

Erectile Dysfunction Pills

Information on effectiveness and side effects of different oral medications for treatment of erectile dysfunction.

Erectile Dysfunction Drugs

An overview of drugs used to treat erectile dysfunction drugs.

MUSE Erectile Dysfunction Treatment

Information about MUSE, a medication used to treat erectile dysfunction.