A widespread taste for pornography means that nature is alerting us to some threat of extinction.

 ~ JG Ballard

Porno is the unconsciousness of culture, the libido of humanity.

 ~ Masami Akita, aka Merzbow

Obscenity is a cleansing process, whereas pornography only adds to the murk.

 ~ Henry Miller

Pornographers are the enemies of women only because our contemporary ideology of pornography does not encompass the possibility of change, as if we were the slaves of history and not its makers. Pornography is a satire on human pretensions.

 ~ Angela Carter

My position has always been that there's two types of people opposed to pornography: those who don't know what they're talking about, and those who don't know what they're missing.

 ~ Larry Flynt

As far as I know, pornography is the only working medicine against seasickness.

 ~ Piet de Jong



 Far from poisoning the mind, pornography shows the deepest truth about sexuality, stripped of romantic veneer.

~ Camille Paglia

I was thinking how pornography could be a superstitious offering to the gods of a dying race.

 ~ John Currin

Pornography is the attempt to insult sex, to do dirt on it.

 ~D.H. Lawrence

What is pornography to one man is the laughter of genius to another.

 ~ D.H. Lawrence

Erotica is simply high-class pornography; better produced, better conceived, better executed, better packaged, designed for a better class of consumer.

 ~ Andrea Dworkin

The difference between pornography and erotica is lighting.

 ~ Gloria Leonard

My reaction to porn films is as follows: After the first ten minutes, I want to go home and screw. After the first 20 minutes, I never want to screw again as long as I live.

 ~Erica Jong

If looking at porn makes you kill people, then Joe Matt should be the biggest serial killer ever. Bundy may have believed that porn made him a murderer, but the experience of millions of peaceful non-murdering porn-consumers around the world proves him wrong.

 ~Chester Brown

What pornography is really about, ultimately, isn't sex but death.

 ~Susan Sontag

PoemHunter, BrainyQuote, The Quote Garden, Thinkexist.com, All Great Quotes, QuotationReference.com, IZ Quotes (thanks Mark!)