Information about erectile dysfunction, including definitions, causes, treatments, and statistics about the prevalence of erectile dysfunction.

How to Talk with Your Partner About ED

Living with ED is difficult, and made more so because talking about it can be so uncomfortable. But some talk is needed, and here are some tips on starting that conversation.

Psychological Causes of Erectile Dysfunction

A list of some of the psychological causes and contributing factors to erectile dysfunction.

Erectile Dysfunction Drugs

An overview of prescription medications used to treat erectile dysfunction.

Erectile Dysfunction Pump

Information about erectile dysfunction pumps (also called vacuum pumps) for treatment of erectile dysfunction.

Erectile Dysfunction Products

A review of erectile dysfunction products, including vacuum pumps used to treat erectile dysfunction, and sex toys to provide additional stimulation.

Prostatectomy and Erectile Dysfunction

Information about erectile dysfunction following prostatectomy, or radical prostate surgery, including risk factors, and what you can do to prepare for experiencing erectile dysfunction following prostatectomy.

Alcohol Erectile Dysfunction

What is the relationship between alcohol and erectile dysfunction?

Erectile Dysfunction Symptoms

What are the symptoms of erectile dysfunction?

Erection Problems

Definitions, causes, and treatments for erections problems.

Impotence or Erectile Dysfunction?

What's the difference between impotence and erectile dysfunction?

Erectile Dysfunction Treatments

Understand the different treatment options for erectile dysfunction.

Diabetes and Erectile Dysfunction

Understanding the relationship between diabetes and erectile dysfunction, including how diabetes can cause erectile dysfunction and what you can do to reduce the risk.

Erectile Dysfunction Injections

An overview of penile injections used to treat erectile dysfunction.

Erectile Dysfunction Pills

How erectile dysfunction pills work, plus information on the effectiveness and side effects of available oral medications used to treat erectile dysfunction.

Sex Toys and Erectile Dysfunction

They aren't a treatment or cure, but sex toys can have a role in expanding sexual options for anyone living with ED.

Erectile Dysfunction Help

Where to turn for help with erectile dysfunction questions and concerns.

Physical Causes of Erectile Dysfunction

Overview of the different physical causes of erectile dysfunction, including illnesses, disease, medications, trauma, and treatments for other health issues.

Erectile Dysfunction Causes

Common causes of erectile dysfunction including physical and psychological causes, and medication that may cause ED.

Erectile Dysfunction Prevalence and Risk Factors in the U.S.

How common is erectile dysfunction, and who is more likely to experience it?

Erectile Dysfunction in Young Men

How common is it for young men to experience erectile dysfunction?

Talk to a Doctor About Erectile Dysfunction

Tips on talking with a doctor about erectile dysfunction.

Dealing with Erectile Dysfunction

Readers share stories and tips about what works and doesn't work living with erectile dysfunction (ED).See submissions

Erectile Dysfunction and Dating

If you think dating or casual sex are off the table once you get erectile dysfunction, you're wrong. Tips on dating with erectile dysfunction.

Living with Erectile Dysfunction

Tips on the social, non-medical aspects of living with erectile dysfunction, including dating, casual sex, and talking with partners about ED.

Erectile Dysfunction:Symptoms, Causes, and Treatments for ED

Everything you want to know about the symptoms, causes, and treatments for erectile dysfunction.