Consider the three following situations:

In which of these situations is it "okay" to have sex when you're drunk? Are all of these situations examples of risky sex?

Like all sexual decisions, the decision to have sex when you've been drinking is one that is best made once you clearly understand the sexual risks, and have assessed the sexual risk for yourself and your partner(s). It's easy to say you shouldn't ever drink when you're going to have sex, but this isn't very realistic, and drinking small amounts of alcohol in moderation won't necessarily have a negative effect on your sexuality.

One concern often raised about sex and alcohol is that that drinking alcohol leads to increased risky sexual behavior, like not using protection to prevent STDs, or having sex that later you regret you had.

Research does show that there is an association between alcohol consumption and having sex without condoms, but there is also research that suggests that the relationship isn't clear cut and factors such as age of the individuals and their relationship status can influence condom use.

Clearly the relationship between alcohol and risky sex is more complicated that one might assume. But there are still some important things to consider about alcohol and risky sexual behavior:

So what about the first three scenarios? If research tells us anything, it's that generalizations are possible, but when it comes to specific sexual situations, each one is unique. How risky the sex you have is depends on many factors, but possibly the most important one, and the one you can control, is how aware you are of the risks. Understanding how factors like drinking alcohol impact your decision making is essential to making decisions that are in the best interest of your health.

Sources:

 Norris, J., Masters, N.T., Zawacki, T. "Cognitive Mediation of Women's Sexual Decision Making: The Influence of Alcohol, Contextual Factors, and Background Variables." Annual Review of Sex Research Volume 15. (2004): 258-297.