Information and resources on safer sex, including methods for practicing safer sex, assessing risk of sexual practices, and decision making strategies for making sexual choices.

Plastic Wrap and Oral Sex

Is plastic wrap a safe barrier to use during oral sex?

Dental Dams

Dental dams can be used as a barrier for oral genital contact to reduce the risk of transmission of STDs.

How to Use Dental Dams

When used properly dental dams can provide protection from sexually transmitted infections and make sex safer. Here's how to properly use dental dams.

Sex Toys and Safer Sex

Can you get a sexually transmitted infection (STD) from using a sex toy? How can you practice safer sex with sex toys to reduce your risk?

Alcohol and Risky Sex

Alcohol and sex, safer sex, risky sex, sex and drinking, alcohol consumption, alcohol abuse, alcoholism

The ABC Model to HIV Prevention

Describes the controversial ABC approach to HIV prevention that emphasizes abstinence, monogamy, and condom use as a method of HIV prevention.

Is Oral Sex Safe Sex?

Explains the STD risks of oral sex and describes the different levels of risk and methods of transmission, with suggestions on ways to make oral sex safer.

How To Assess Risk in Sexual Situations

Questions to ask yourself to help develop a risk assessment for you and support you in making the best sexual choices for yourself.

What is Sexual Risk - Making Choices About Risky Sexual Behaviors

Defining sexual risk, how to consider taking sexual risks and keeping yourself safe from sexually risky behaviors.

What Sex is Risky - Levels of Risk with Various Sexual Behaviors

General safer sex guidelines on the safety of a variety of common sexual behaviors from masturbation to anal sex. Includes comments on the danger of generalizing about the risk of sexual behaviors.

Defining Safer Sex - How do we Make Sex Safer?

An expanded definition of safer sex, including taking care of our bodies and minds as we engage in sexual behaviors. Suggesting ways to think about your sex life to make it more fulfilling and healthier.

How to put on a female condom - putting on a female condom

Instructions on how to put on and remove the female condom.

How to put a condom on with your mouth - How do I put a condom on with my ...

Answers the question how do I put a condom on with my mouth, with step by step instructions on how to put a condom on with your mouth.

How to put on a condom Putting on a Condom Correctly

A step by step explanation on how to put on and take off a condom. With links to illustrations on how to put on a condom properly

Phthalates in Sex Toys

Describes what phthalates, which are used in the manufacturing of many sex toys, are, and concerns that have been raised about phthalates by scientists, consumer groups, and the media.

Should We Teach Only Abstinence in Sexuality Education?

Outlines the problems with abstinence-only sex education.

Sex and Latex Allergies

Explains where and how latex may come up in sex play and what non-latex alternatives exist for those with allergies.