The US Government has issued new funding and educational guidelines related to abstinence only education on January 25. These new guidelines now prohibit talking about "sexual stimulation" and not just sexual intercourse. This could, of course, include such stimulating behavior as kissing.

The new budget for abstinence only grants is now $113 million, which is an increase of 465% since the program began in 2001.

California Congressperson Henry Waxman, who has been a vocal opponent of the administrations attempts to turn back the clock on all sexual health knowledge we have gained, has issued a letter to Michael Leavitt the secretary of the Dept. of Health and Human Services, which details the many problems with the new guidelines.

The Sex Information and Education Council of the U.S. has also released a paper detaling the problems with the new guidelines.

"This new funding announcement is ACF's stealth attempt at revamping the entire program to make it even more restrictive. This funding announcement is full of wild and unfounded assertions that abstinence before marriage will cure everything from psychological disorders to criminal behavior and ensure financial success and a lifetime of happiness," said William Smith , vice president for public policy at SIECUS in a February 16 press release.





The new guidelines enumerate messages that should be included in curriculum. These messages rely on fear and shame, discourage contraceptive use, promote marriage, and ignore sexually active students, LGBTQ youth, and young people who have been or are being sexually abused. For example:

"This new program adopted by ACF is simplistic and unproven," Smith said. "The 'Get Married' approach to health education being promoted by the federal government leaves young people without the information and skills they need and puts their lives at significant risk. We can only conclude that the Bush Administration's intention is to pump federal tax dollars into programs that share its narrow world view at the expense of the health and well-being our nation's young people," Smith continued.