Healthy Apricot Pasta Salad RecipeA low-fat and healthy pasta salad recipe with apricots and bell peppers.  A healthy vegetarian pasta salad with fresh summer fruit, this vegetarian pasta salad recipe is perfect for a outdoor picnic, potluck of barbecue. Quick and Easy Pasta and Bean SaladQuick and Easy Pasta and Bean Salad. This quick pasta salad recipe is vegetarian, but you could easily make it vegan by using vegan mayonnaise. Experiment by adding some of your favorite veggies for an even more nutritious salad. Enjoy! Healthy Baked Beans and Pasta SaladSweet Baked Beans and Pasta Salad - a healthy and high-protein vegetarian pasta salad recipe with baked beans. Classic Italian Pasta SaladClassic Italian Pasta Salad Vegetarian and vegan pasta salads for summerVegetarian and vegan pasta salads for summer Vegetarian Olive and Feta Pasta Salad RecipeA vegetarian pasta recipe you can serve hot for dinner or cold for a pasta salad. This is a quick and easy vegetarian pasta recipe full of healthy fiber and protein and suitable for vegetarian kids. Fat-Free Vegan Pasta Salad RecipeMake a fat-free vegetarian pasta salad by using fat-free Italian salad dressing. Seasoned with fresh herbs, this fat-free pasta salad is both vegetarian and vegan. easy Artichoke Pasta Salad RecipeAn easy Italian pasta salad recipe with artichokes, tomatoes and black olives. This is a low-fat vegetarian and vegan pasta salad recipe. Vegetarian Pasta Salad with AsparagusPasta Salad with Asparagus Artichoke Pasta Salad with MayonnaiseArtichoke Pasta Salad with Mayonnaise Mexican pasta salad for kidsA Mexican twist on the usual pasta salad recipes, with the addition of salsa and a bit of chile powder in the dressing. Vegetarian whole wheat pasta salad with fresh basilVegetarian whole wheat pasta salad with fresh basil - Teen vegetarian cooking - Easy recipe Mushroom pasta salad recipeA vegetarian and vegan homemade pasta salad recipe filled with lots of fresh vegetables, including mushrooms, snow peas, bell pepper and fresh parsley in a red wine and Dijon vinaigrette dressing. Chinese Noodle Salad with RamenThis quick and easy ramen noodle and cabbage salad makes a great vegetarian lunch or dinner. To make it vegan, just be sure to use agave nectar, instead of honey. For an even heartier ramen noodle salad, I like to make a little extra dressing and add a portion of tofu to the mix. Greek Pasta SaladA Greek pasta salad recipe with feta cheese. Prepare this pasta salad up to two days in advance and let the flavors mingle. Garlic Ranch Pasta SaladA pasta salad recipe perfect for finicky eaters! This pasta salad recipe with Parmesan cheese comes from About.com's Guide to Cooking for Kids. Lemon Asparagus Pasta SaladPasta salad with a lemon dressing. The perfect spring pasta salad recipe. Avocado pasta salad with rotiniAvocado pasta salad with rotini pasta, fresh basil and cherry tomatoes in a simple vinaigrette dressing topped with fresh grated Parmesan cheese.