Low-Fat Vegetarian Eggplant LasagnaA wonderful Italian lasagna recipe full of healthy spinach and eggplant. This vegetarian and vegan recipe uses no cheese, so it is much lower in fat than a traditional lasagna. Tofu and Spinach LasagnaLayered with crumbled tofu and plenty of spinach, this recipe for a vegan, cheeseless lasagna is hearty and flavorful. No cheese means this recipe is much lower in fat than other traditional lasagna recipes. This Italian lasagna recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Crock Pot Vegetarian Lasagna RecipeCrock Pot Vegetarian Lasagna Recipe. You can prepare this easy vegetarian lasagne in your crockpot using just a few simple ingredients. Using tofu instead of cheese makes this lasagne recipe very low-fat and also vegan. Tofu and Artichoke Vegetarian LasagnaTofu and Artichoke Vegetarian Lasagna Easy Whole Wheat Vegetarian LasagneEasy Whole Wheat Vegetarian Lasagne Vegan lasagna with cashew white sauceVegan lasagna with cashew white sauce Quick and Easy Vegetarian Pizza LasagnaA quick and easy vegetarian lasagna recipe just for kids! This easy recipe uses canned ingredients and veggie burger mix for a lasagna casserole you can get into the oven and on the table super-quick! "Meaty" TVP Lasagna"Meaty" TVP Lasagna Low Fat Vegetarian Lasagna with Ricotta CheeseYou can use a fat-free ricotta cheese to make a very low-fat vegetarian lasagna. It's also got plenty of fresh vegetables so it's healthier than many other lasagna recipes and is a good source of fiber and nutrients. This is a good vegetarian lasagna recipe if you're cooking for kids. Spinach and Parmesan Vegetable LasagnaA reduced-calorie vegetable lasagna made from low-fat cottage cheese, spinach and parmesan cheese. Vegetable Lasagna RecipeA decadent four-cheese vegetarian lasagna recipe with lots of healthy vegetables, including mushrooms, bell peppers and zucchini. Video Recipe: Kosher Matzo Lasagna RecipeA simple vegetarian lasagna recipe using matzo instead of pasta noodles.  Zucchini Lasagne RecipeA vegetarian lasagne recipe with zucchini, carrots and lots of cheese. This is a great vegetarian lasagna recipe for kids.  Traditional Italian Vegetarian LasagnaAbout.com's Guide to Italian Food shares this recipe for a more traditional vegetarian lasagna with fresh Parmesan as well as Italian ribiola cheese and fresh tomatoes. Vegetarian Zucchini LasagnaA vegetarian recipe for Italian zucchini lasagna with lots of Italian cheeses. A very cheesy vegetarian lasagna!