Barley and Seitan Pilaf (Vegan)Whole grain barley can be used in many recipes just like rice. This recipe uses broth and fresh herbs to add maximum flavor to the barley. Edamame and Feta Tabbouleh SaladIf you like traditional vegetarian tabbouleh salad, try this gourmet tabbouleh made with feta cheese and edamame soy beans. Made with pesto and fresh herbs for plenty of flavor, this is an unusual and tasty vegetarian tabbouleh salad. This makes a great vegetarian entree or side salad. Wheat berry and vegetable chiliWheat berries add healthy whole grains and texture to this filling vegetable chili recipe. Curried quinoa pilafCurried vegetarian quinoa salad is a healthy and low-fat side dish that is delicious hot as a pilaf or cold as a quinoa salad. This recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Teff - What is teff?Teff - What is teff? Here's what you need to know about cooking with this healthy and gluten-free whole grain. Vegetarian Quinoa Tabbouleh SaladA vegetarian tabbouleh (also spelled tabouleh or tabouli) salad, made with healthy, whole grain and high-protein quinoa. It's really a two-in-one: you get a quinoa salad as well as a traditional Middle Eastern tabbouleh, and it's vegetarian and vegan. Seven Types of Whole GrainsWant to learn more about different types of whole grains, or looking for a new grain to add to your regular repertoire? Here's a list of few of my favorite healthy high-fiber whole grains. Southwestern Bulgur Wheat Pilaf with Corn and TomatoesSouthwestern Bulgur Wheat Pilaf with Corn and Tomatoes Vegan quinoa casserole with spinach Vegan quinoa casserole with spinach and cheese sauce recipe - Quinoa casserole baked Vegetarian barley risotto with mushrooms, spinach and ricotta cheeseIf you're looking for a gourmet risotto, try this Italian-inspired whole grain barley and mushroom risotto with ricotta for a gourmet vegetarian dinner entree. Baked beans with barleyAdd some healthy whole grains to ordinary vegetarian baked beans. Garlic and Parmesan QuinoaThis is an easy vegetarian recipe for whole grain quinoa flavored with garlic and Parmesan cheese. Although this is a very basic recipe, you can vary it by adding some fried tofu or whatever veggies you happen to have on hand. For a vegan version of this quinoa recipe, use nutritional yeast and olive oil in place of the Parmesan cheese and butter. Couscous with Parlsey, Mint and Garbanzo BeansCouscous with Lemon, Mint and Garbanzo Beans Barley and Pecan Stuffed TomatoesStuffed tomatoes are a popular vegetarian dinner entree. These nutritious vegetarian stuffed tomatoes are stuffed with healthy whole grain barley and chopped pecans. Vegetarian Bulgur Wheat Pilaf with MushroomsA vegetarian and vegan bulgur pilaf recipe made with healthy whole grain bulgur wheat. If you like whole grains or rice pilaf, try this super-healthy version using bulgur wheat. Easy Barley and Mushroom Pilaf RecipeFor a vegan barley pilaf recipe that is lower in fat and cholesterol-free, simply omit the Parmesan cheese, or, you could try adding a bit of nutritional yeast instead of the cheese. Vegetarian Barley Stuffed SquashMake a healthy vegetarian stuffed squash using a stuffing of whole grain barley and veggies. Couscous Stuffed Bell PeppersCouscous Stuffed Bell Peppers Quinoa salad with veggiesA simple vegetarian quinoa salad with veggies. Hearty enough to be a main dish, yet still light enough to be a side. Quinoa stuffing recipeTry a unique vegetarian quinoa stuffing recipe, with all the traditional stuffing herbs and flavors. Whole grain quinoa pecan saladWhole grain quinoa seasoned with fresh mint and parsley makes this salad recipe healthy and low-fat, as well as vegetarian and vegan. Wheat berry salad pilaf with artichokesWheat berry salad pilaf with artichokes Quinoa and spinach muffinsQuinoa and spinach muffins - Savory quinoa egg muffins with spinach Moroccan Couscous with Chickpeas and PeppersMoroccan Couscous with Chickpeas and Peppers Mexican bulgur wheat pilafhealthy whole grain bulgur wheat combines with vegetables and Mexican spices to create a textured, flavorful and healthy vegetarian bulgur wheat pilaf recipe. Serve it as a main dish for dinner, use it to fill up tortillas for a whole wheat vegetarian burrito or serve it as a side dish along with some enchiladas or another Mexican entree. Orange Raisin Couscous SaladOrange Raisin Couscous Salad Millet pattiesMillet patties Quinoa RecipesLooking for a healthy quinoa recipe or wondering what's the best way to cook quinoa? Look no further! Here are my favorite fabulously easy and healthy vegetarian and vegan whole grain quinoa recipes. Vegetarian Couscous Primavera with CheeseA quick and easy but still very healthy vegetarian recipe for couscous with lots of vegetables and Parmesan cheese. If you've got leftover couscous, this is a great way to use it up. Spinach and Couscous with Feta CheeseSpinach and Couscous with Feta Cheese Whole grain Greek quinoa saladA whole grain quinoa dish with traditional Greek salad ingredients. Vegetarian Moroccan Couscous RecipeVegetarian Moroccan Couscous Recipe Vegetarian Barley and Lentil Soup RecipeVegetarian barley lentil soup combines whole grains, high-protein lentils and plenty of healthy and high-fiber vegetables, so it just couldn't possibly be more good for you! This vegetarian barley soup recipe is very low in fat, as it uses no oil, butter or margarine, and as a vegan recipe, it is naturally cholesterol-free. Barley Lentil... Quinoa citrus salad recipeA homemade quinoa salad recipe made with oranges and grapefruit in a light and healthy vinaigrette. Fiesta Cheese and Chile Barley CasseroleA healthy vegetarian barley casserole recipe similar to a barley pilaf. Whole grain barley is a nutritious high-fiber and low-fat food perfect for vegetarians as it is also relatively high in protein. Breakfast quinoa recipes for vegetarians and vegansBreakfast quinoa recipes for vegetarians and vegans Barley, Wild Rice and Cranberry PilafMake a healthy whole grain barley pilaf recipe with wild rice and cranberries. Barley pilaf is a nutritious and high-fiber side dish or vegetarian main dish. Indian Spiced Couscous Salad RecipeThis Indian-spiced couscous salad recipe certainly isn't a traditional Indian food recipe, but it is a healthy (and yummy!) dish suitable for a vegetarian or vegan main dish or side dish. Couscous with Dijon dressingAn easy vegetarian and vegan couscous salad recipe with chickpeas and cucumbers in a light lemon Dijon dressing with chopped fresh parsley Barley recipesBarley recipes - Vegetarian barley recipes - Vegan homemade healthy barley recipe - Pearled barley recipes - Barley soup, barley risottos, barley pilaf - Bean barley soup Freekeh tabouli recipeA freekeh tabouli recipe made with high-fiber and high-protein whole grain freekeh. Perfect for vegetarians, vegans or just a heart-healthy summer lunch. Whole Grain Freekeh Risotto with Spring AsparagusWhole Grain Freekeh Risotto with Spring Asparagus - A vegan and vegetarian freekeh recipe Curried sweet potato and freekeh salad recipeA hearty vegetarian and vegan curried sweet potato and whole grain freekeh salad recipe with Moroccan influences. Quinoa pilaf salad with mushrooms, onions and parsleyQuinoa pilaf salad with mushrooms, onions and parsley - Vegetarian and vegan recipe Beet salad with whole grain freekehA delicious and hearty whole foods recipe for freekeh with lots of protein. Freekeh is tossed with roasted beets and white beans in an apple cider vinaigrette and topped off with feta cheese in this vegetarian salad recipe. Bulgur wheat - What is bulgur wheat?Bulgur wheat - what is it, how to cook with it, and more, including bulgur wheat recipes. Tomato and barley vegetable soup recipeTomato and barley vegetable soup recipe Basic Barley and Vegetable SoupI love the crunchy and chewy texture of barley in this easy vegetarian barley and vegetable soup recipe. Although I recommend that you simmer this barley soup for 30 minutes, it really is better if you have the time to let it cook even longer, as the flavors take time to develop. This barley and vegetable soup recipe is low in fat, vegetarian... Lentil and freekeh saladLentil and freekeh salad recipe with feta goat cheese, tomatoes and sugar snap peas. A healthy freekeh entree with fresh vegetables. Quinoa saladQuinoa salad Kidney Bean and Barley SaladKidney beans, barley and bell peppers combine in this colorful summer bean and barley salad recipe. If you need a healthy, high-fiber and high-protein bean salad or barley salad recipe, try this easy summer salad. Quinoa antipasto salad recipe If you love those deli-fresh antipasto plates, but don't want the meat, try this vegetarian antipasto-inspired quinoa salad. It's made with fresh herbs, mushrooms, black olives and, y favorite part, tangy pepperoncini. Omit the cheese to keep it dairy-free and vegan. Quinoa and black bean salad with corn and cilantroQuinoa and black bean salad with corn and cilantro - A vegetarian and vegan high-protein and high-fiber healthy recipe Roasted sweet potato stew with kale and freekehFreekeh soup with sweet potatoes and kale - Healthy vegetarian and vegan stew recipe Crockpot barley chiliA vegetarian chili recipe made with healthy barley as well as beans. This barley chili recipe is super easy to prepare in the crockpot. Israeli couscous risotto with spinach and Parmesan cheeseIsraeli couscous risotto with spinach and Parmesan cheese Chickpea and couscous soup recipeChickpea and couscous soup recipe Chocolate quinoa breakfast cookiesThese little quinoa cookies are vegetarian, vegan, high in protein, refined-sugar free, and, if you use a gluten-free oatmeal, they're gluten-free as well. Perfect for a kids breakfast on the go or a healthy high-protein snack. Simple quinoa in marinara sauceLooking for a way to prepare quinoa? It doesn't get much simpler than this quinoa in marinara or spaghetti sauce recipe. Vegetarian, healthy, quick and simple. Gluten-free, vegetarian, with an easy vegan option. Barley - What is barley?What is barley? Whole grain barley is a healthy high-fiber and high-protein grain boasting numerous health benefits. Learn more about cooking with barley, the different types of barley, calories and protein in barley and the numerous health benefits of this healthy whole grain. Spicy sweet potato quinoa saladThis five star sweet potato quinoa salad recipe is high in protein, low in fat, and high in spicy and sweet flavor! Whole grain quinoa cooks quicker than most grains and is an excellent source of protein for vegetarians with about 11 grams of protein per cup of cooked quinoa. Simple Israeli salad with pearl couscous, cucumbers and parsleySimple Israeli salad with pearl couscous, cucumbers and parsley - Vegetarian and vegan recipe Freekeh veggie burger pattiesThese veggie burgers are a unique way to use whole grain freekeh in a healthy and high-fiber vegetarian recipe. Made with beans, chipotle mustard, chili powder and some flavor-bumping artichoke hearts, these meat-free burger patties can be used to make veggie burgers, fill pita bread sandwiches or just enjoyed on their own. Moroccan Vegetarian "Chicken" with Almonds and CouscousMoroccan Vegetarian "Chicken" with Almonds and Couscous Vegetarian millet pilaf with pesto, mushrooms and kaleVegetarian millet pilaf with pesto, mushrooms and kale Vegetarian baked millet casserole with bread crumb toppingVegetarian baked millet casserole with bread crumb topping recipe Couscous with black beansThis is a quick and easy recipe for vegetarian couscous with black beans and lots of veggies. Simply toss the couscous with the other ingredients and serve! Thai-spiced barley and vegetable stir-fry recipeThai-spiced whole grain barley and vegetables in a simple vegetarian and vegan stir-fry. Millet risotto with broccoli recipeA vegetarian recipe for whole grain millet risotto with broccoli with a vegetarian and a vegan option. Millet is a naturally gluten-free grain, but if you need this recipe to be gluten-free, just use water in place of store-bought vegetable broth, or, make your own homemade gluten-free vegetable broth. Apple cinnamon breakfast couscousA five star reviewed recipe, quick couscous flavored with fruit and cinnamon makes for a healthy whole grain breakfast. Quick and easy wild rice and pear salad with Italian dressingQuick and easy wild rice and pear salad with Italian dressing - Vegetarian vegan wild rice salad Maple cinnamon breakfast quinoaIf you don't have time to cook quinoa in the morning, cook it the night before, or, try using quick-cooking quinoa flakes. Vegetarian, vegan, and gluten-free with plenty of healthy protein. Vegan quinoa "fried rice"Got leftover quinoa? Use it to make this vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free fried "rice" recipe. Just like regular fried rice, this quinoa "fried rice" recipe uses soy sauce and sesame oil along with plenty of vegetables. Add in a bit of tofu or scrambled egg if you'd like a bit of a heartier meal. Millet - What is millet?If you like cooking with whole grains, try using millet! Although it may be most widely used a birdseed, millet is a whole grain that can be used like rice in vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free dishes. Orange banana breakfast couscousCouscous makes a quick and easy vegetarian or vegan breakfast alternative to processed cereal or if you're bored of oatmeal. Barley and wild rice pilaf with orange sesame dressingThis two-grain vegetarian and vegan barley and wild rice pilaf salad has just a hint of Asian influences with a fresh vinaigrette dressing made of orange juice, lime, sesame oil and a dash of soy sauce. Quinoa Nutrition FactsQuinoa is healthy, but just how healthy is it? Get the straight nutritional facts and nutrient data about this healthy gluten-free and low-fat grain. Quinoa is a great food not just for vegetarians and vegans, but for anyone looking to lower their cholesterol or add fiber to their diet. Israeli couscous recipeIsraeli couscous recipe ideas for vegetarian and vegans - Healthy whole grain pearl couscous recipes Vegetarian Broccoli and Couscous Soup RecipeA vegetarian soup recipe for broccoli and couscous soup using healthy whole grain couscous, a bit of lemon juice and some parmesan cheese. Couscous is a naturally cholesterol-free food and is very high in protein.  Quinoa banana "tapioca" pudding recipe Like tapioca pudding, but looking for a healthier, gluten-free and vegan version? Look no further! This healthy and delcious vegan dessert recipe is made from quiona and soy milk, and sweetened with either maple syrup or brown rice syrup, making it refined sugar-free as well.  Freekeh - What is it?Cooking with freekeh, nutritional information and more. Barley and Feta Stuffed ArtichokesBarley and Feta Stuffed Artichokes Quinoa-stuffed acorn squashQuinoa-stuffed acorn squash. Whole grain quinoa tops off a roasted acorn squash in this easy whole grain vegetarian and vegan recipe. Couscous for breakfastWith 193 calories per serving, this is a healthy and low-calorie way to get some whole grains into your breakfast. Black bean and quinoa salad recipeBlack bean and quinoa salad recipe Chickpea quinoa salad with cranberries and limeChickpea quinoa salad with cranberries and lime Easy farro and kale salad recipeWith a ton of garlic, whole grains and greens, this easy farro and kale salad couldn't possibly be any healthier. The greens become wilted and soft, picking up lots of flavor from the garlic and red wine vinegar. Vegetarian fall quinoa pilaf with blueberries and harvati cheese recipeVegetarian fall quinoa pilaf with blueberries and harvati cheese recipe Quinoa breakfast porridge with strawberriesHealthy breakfast porridge made with quinoa cooked in either soy milk or almond milk, a bit of brown sugar and vanilla and cinnamon for flavor, then topped off with fresh fruit and nuts for a filling, protein-rich vegetarian, vegan, dairy-free and gluten-free breakfast.  Easy sesame quinoa recipeEasy sesame quinoa recipe Millet recipesMillet recipes - Healthy vegetarian and vegan millet recipes