Vegetarian Chinese Kung Pao TofuIf you like vegetarian Chinese food, try this recipe for Szechuan style Chinese Kung Pao Tofu. Although this dish is usually made with chicken, you can use tofu to create a very similar vegetarian and vegan version of traditional Chinese food kung pao chicken. Tofu Stir-fry with Snow Peas and ShiitakeTofu and vegetables make for an incredibly healthy dinner, and this extra saucy Chinese tofu stir-fry is just as delicious as it is good for you! This stir-fry recipe calls for shiitake mushrooms and snow peas for a healthy high-fiber vegetarian dinner. Serve with brown rice. Bok Choy and Shiitake Mushroom Stir Fry RecipeLooking for Chinese food stir-fry recipes to try? This is an easy vegetarian Chinese food recipe using bok choy and shiitake mushrooms. Delicious and nutritious vegetarian Asian cuisine! Simple Tofu and Veggie Stir-Fry with GingerSimple Tofu and Veggie Stir-Fry with Ginger - a simple recipe for an easy Chinese-style vegetarian and vegan stir-fry with vegetables and tofu in a light ginger sauce. If you like Chinese food stir-fries, this is an easy and basic recipe to try. Chinese Potstickers with Mushroom and Tofu RecipeThese Chinese vegetarian and vegan potstickers are little steamed dumplings similar to Japanese gyoza. Unlike traditional Chinese potstickers, I like to steam these rather than pan-fry them, to make them lower in fat. Whether you call them steamed dumplings, Chinese potstickers or Japanese gyoza, you may want to make a double batch, as your guests will call them "yummy!". Vegan Tofu "Egg" Foo Young RecipeVegan Tofu "Egg" Foo Young Recipe - A vegan version of Chinese egg foo young, using tofu instead of eggs. Szechuan Style Chinese NoodlesSzechuan Style Chinese Noodles - an easy vegetarian and vegan Chinese food recipe. Orange-glazed tempehChinese restaurant-style tempeh in a simple tangy and sweet orange glaze. If you like Chinese orange chicken, try this vegetarian and vegan version instead. Vegetarian Crock Pot Chow Mein with SeitanVegetarian Crock Pot Chow Mein with Seitan Sweet and Sour Tofu with VeggiesIf you've ever had a sweet and sour dish at a Chinese restaurant and wondered how they made it, this recipe is for you! Sweet and Sour Tofu with Vegetables is an easy to prepare recipe that will have your family thinking you picked up Chinese take-out! Serve over prepared rice. Vegetarian Ginger Lo Mein NoodlesVegetarian Ginger Lo Mein Noodles Chinese Style SpaghettiChinese-style spaghetti with sesame oil and snow peas is the perfect way to perk up an ordinary plate of spaghetti or noodles. This dish is both vegetarian and vegan. Cold Chinese Sesame NoodlesCold Chinese Sesame Noodles Vegan Cashew Fried Rice RecipeThis recipe for Tofu and Cashew Fried Rice uses tofu instead of eggs for a traditional Chinese dish. The tofu has a very similar appearance and texture, so you won't miss the eggs at all. Chinese Scallion PancakesI was lucky enough to visit Taiwan recently and tasted these amazing scallion pancakes which are served up hot and fresh in stacks from street vendors. These green onion pancakes are more than just a breakfast food, so enjoy them anytime. Serve plain or dipped in a good quality soy sauce. This recipe for Chinese Scallion (Green Onion) Pancakes is both vegetarian and vegan. Crispy Fried TofuCrispy Fried Tofu is great on its own or dipped in just about any kind of sauce. You can also use it in a vegetable stir-fry, fried rice or noodle dish. This Chinese-inspired recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Chinese Style Vegetarian Spring RollsThis recipe for Chinese-style spring rolls is both vegetarian and vegan. Vegetarian "beef" and broccoli Chinese stir-fry recipeVegetarian "beef" and broccoli Chinese stir-fry recipe Chinese Vegetable Stir-FryVegetable stir-fries are a great staple for most vegetarians and vegans. They can be prepared quickly with ingredients you likely have on hand and are generally quite healthy. This vegetarian and vegan Chinese-style vegetable stir-fry is low in fat and is quite easy to prepare. Feel free to add some tofu or seitan into the mix as well, and serve over rice if desired. Vegetable Fried RiceThis recipe for fried rice with veggies will remind you of the fried rice served at Chinese restaurants. Feel free to add more veggies or some tofu for a heartier dish. This recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Spicy Sesame Peanut NoodlesNoodles with peanut sauce is one of my favorite easy dishes to whip up on those nights where I'm very hungry, but just don't feel like cooking. This Thai and Chinese-inspired recipe can be made less spicy by substituting red pepper flakes for the cayenne, or, omit the cayenne altogether. Spicy sesame peanut noodles are both vegetarian and vegan. Chinese Noodle Salad with RamenChinese Noodle Salad with Ramen. This quick and easy ramen recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Sweet and Sour TempehSweet and sour tempeh with pineapples and peppers. Perfect over rice. This Chinese-style recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Cold Asian Rice Salad with VegetablesCold Asian Rice Salad with Vegetables Tempeh Chinese noodle bowlTempeh and noodles mix with vegetables in this simple noodle bowl dish for vegetarians and vegans. Vegetarian Singapore NoodlesSingapore-style noodle dish with bell peppers, chili sauce and a bit of curry. How to Make a Stir-Fry MealWondering how to make a simple home-cooked Chinese stir-fry? Here's how to stir-fry vegetables (and noodles!) without using a recipe. Chinese Hoisin Stir-FryChinese style stir-fry, made with a hoisin-based sauce is a quick and simple stir-fry with a distinct Asian flavor. Though the recipe calls for seitan, you could substitute tofu with good results and vary the vegetables used as well. This stir-fry has plenty of sauce, so serve over rice or noodles. Vegetarian Orange Glazed TofuEasy vegetarian tofu recipe with an orange glaze; similar to an orange glazed chicken you might find at a Chinese restaurant. A sweet, spicy and tangy orange-glazed tofu. Toss in some veggies and serve over rice to make it a full vegetarian meal. Vegetable stir-friesA vegetable stir-fry is one of the quickest basic meals you'll want to incorporate into your cooking repertoire when you go vegetarian or vegan. Asian sweet and sour sauce recipeA simple homemade Chinese-inspired sweet and sour sauce made from rice vinegar, lime juice and crushed red pepper. Vegan Chinese Hot and Sour Soup with Tofu and PeanutsChinese Hot and Sour Soup is a traditional Asian soup recipe, although this version is less authentic since it is vegetarian. This vegetarian and vegan recipe uses tofu instead of meat, and includes peanuts for extra texture. Eat it for breakfast, as is commonly done in Asia, or as an accompaniment to a vegetarian Chinese meal. Vegetarian Hot and Sour SoupChinese Hot and Sour Soup is a light meal or accompaniment eaten any time of day. My Taiwanese roomate in college used to prepare this for breakfast on occasion, and I heartily ate it up! This recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. It is somewhat light, however, so feel free to add in some tofu or seitan. Chinese Five Spice TofuChinese five spice is a unique taste that certainly isn't for everyone. If you have "undeveloped" Western taste-buds, you may want to cut the amount of five-spice required in half, or try a milder recipe for vegetarian Chinese food or tofu. If, however, you want a genuine taste of Chinese cuisine in a vegetarian and vegan tofu recipe, try this... General Tso's tofuGeneral Tso's chicken is one of the most popular dishes at Chinese food restaurants in America, so why not try tihs vegetarian and vegan version using tofu? It's got all the same spices and seasonings as General Tso's chicken, but it's made with tofu in place of the chicken. Try this recipe with a mock chicken product, such as gardein, or another meat substitute. Sweet and Sour Mock Vegetarian "Chicken"Chinese-style Sweet and Sour Mock Vegetarian "Chicken" Vegan quinoa "fried rice"Use leftover quinoa to make this Chinese-inspired vegan and gluten-free quinoa fried "rice" recipe. Just like regular fried rice, this quinoa "fried rice" recipe uses soy sauce and sesame oil along with plenty of vegetables. Add in a bit of tofu or scrambled egg if you'd like a bit of a heartier meal. Vegan Asian Green Beans RecipeThis is a great way to cook up some healthy vegan green beans for a quick and nutritious vegetable side dish. Inspired by the flavors of Asia with soy sauce and sherry, this easy green bean recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. A reviewer gave this recipe five out of five stars and said, "I find these green beans to be crisp and very flavor(ful) and very easy to do and I feel like they are very healthy and good for my family." Sweet Pineapple and Cabbage Stir-FryPineapple makes a great addition to just about any stir fry and needs very little cooking time. This stir fry is sweet, crunchy and a breeze to make. It doesn't have a hearty sauce, so I like to eat it as is, rather than over rice. Orange Roasted Vegetarian "Chicken"Orange Roasted Vegetarian "Chicken". This recipe is very similar to the vegetarian mock chicken dishes served over rice in Chinese restaurants. Sweet and Sour VegetablesA vegetarian recipe for sweet and sour Chinese vegetables. Using frozen vegetables makes this vegetarian and vegan recipe very quick and easy to prepare. Chinese Bok Choy Stir FryA vegetarian and vegan Chinese recipe for stir-fried bok choy. Serve this vegetarian bok choy stir-fry as it is or over rice. You could also add some tofu for a more filling main dish. Easy Chinese Snow Pea Stir-Fry RecipeAn easy Chinese vegetable stir fry recipe using fresh snow peas. Quick and Easy Sweet and Sour SauceYou probably already have all the ingredients for this quick and easy Chinese sweet and sour sauce on hand. A vegetarian and vegan recipe. Stir-Fried Spinach with Miso and GingerStir-Fried Spinach with Miso and Ginger Tofu and Cashew Chinese Chow MeinA Chinese chow mein recipe with tofu, cashews and broccoli. Vegetarian Potstickers with Tofu and Bok ChoyVegetarian Potstickers with Tofu and Bok Choy Vegetarian Chinese Chow Mein RecipeA vegetarian Chinese chow mein recipe with lots of fresh vegetables. Chow mein is a Chinese dish made from noodles, vegetables, sprouts, and crunchy water chestnuts. This Chinese chow mein recipe is both vegetarian and vegan. Vegetarian sesame chicken wings Vegetarian sesame chicken wings. Start with a store-bought vegetarian chicken substitute, brush them with a Chinese-inspired glaze of hoisin sauce and sesame oil, and cook them until sticky and perfect. Yum!