Kids: How to raise vegetarian parents?Parents need help along the way sometimes. If you're a vegetarian whose parents just won't listen, what would you tell them if they would? Maybe your parents won't listen, but somebody else's just might. What advice can you give parents who find that their kids just won't eat meat? See submissions How to raise vegetarian childrenRaising a child is never easy. But what if that child refuses to eat meat? Or, what if you're trying to raise a healthy vegetarian child surrounded by people telling you you're wrong, or hurting your child? Vegetarian parents (and vegetarian and vegan children!) need a strong support system. Please share your advice as the parent or guardian of a vegetarian or vegan child, and help others learn f... See submissions College Vegetarian CookingCollege Vegetarian Cooking A Healthy Halloween?As a kid, it seemed there was always one house in the neighborhood that handed out raisins or sunflower seeds on Halloween, much to the chagrin of all of the kids. Breakfast on the Go: Veg Breakfasts for Hectic School DaysGoing back to school shouldn't mean skimping on nutrition - especially when it comes to breakfast! Long touted as the most important meal of the day, for most of us, its also the most rushed meal of the day. Here's some quick tips to help make sure all members of the family start the day well-nourished, even if you just have a few minutes before rushing out the door. Favorite Party Recipes for KidsThese great ideas will help you plan a healthy and fun birthday party for the kids! For Parents of Vegetarian TeensSo, your teen wants to be a vegetarian or a vegan? That's great news! They're making a great choice for their health, the environment, and animal welfare. Here's what you need to know to make sure your teenager stays healthy on a vegetarian or vegan diet. Tips for parents of vegetarian teens. Vegetarian Teen MagazineOnline magazine by and for vegetarian teens, including a section for parents. This is a well-done and thorough site with tons of resources.  Vegetarian Children's BooksList of children's storybooks with vegetarian characters or about issues such as organic food and animal rescue.  A Vegan HalloweenTips on how to have a happy, healthy, and vegan Halloween.  Brown Bag Lunches for KidsWondering what to make for lunch? Mom Jennifer shows us what she packs her vegan youngster for lunch everyday and  reviews what he liked and didn't like. Her lunches are kid-friendly, but I think most adults would approve as well! Meet Some Healthy Vegan ChildrenEver wondered what children born and raised vegan are like? This web feature introduces us to several families with children who have been vegan since birth. Too cute!