Agave Nectar - What is agave nectar?Need a definition of agave nectar or wondering what it is? Learn more about using agave nectar as a sugar substitute, how to use it in cooking, as a vegan substitute for honey or on a raw food diet. Aronia berries - What are they?What are aroniaberries? Wondering about this new superfood and whether there's any truth to the health claims behind aronia berries? Read on to find out. Barley - Whole grain barley - What is barley?Whole grain barley is a healthy high-fiber and high-protein grain boasting numerous health benefits. Learn more about cooking with barley, the different types of barley, calories and protein in barley and the numerous health benefits of this healthy whole grain. Buckwheat - What is Buckwheat? Buckwheat defined.What is buckwheat or buckwheat groats? Buckwheat is used in many raw food diet recipes as well as health food products on today's market. Can it be eaten raw? Is it gluten-free? Find out all about buckwheat here. Buckwehat defined, and kasha, too. Bulgur wheat - What is bulgur wheat?Bulgur wheat - what is it, how to cook with it, and more, including bulgur wheat recipes. CaseinDefinition of casein, a milk protein. Cocoa butter - What is cocoa butter?This detailed but simple definition of cocoa butter explains the origin and culinary uses of the fat. Edamame - What is edamame?Wondering about the edamame you've had a Japanese restaurants? If you've like edamame or are wondering what is edamame, here's what you need to know. Egg replacerDefiniton of egg replacer and how to use it. FlexitarianDefinition of flexitarian, also known as semi-vegetarian. Freekeh - What is it?Freekeh grain - Definition of freekeh. What is it? Halloumi cheese - what is halloumi?Halloumi cheese is making it's way up the list of popular food trends - and with good reason! Halloumi cheese is a delicious and uniquely grillable cheese. Read on to learn about what is halloumi cheese, cooking and grilling with halloumi, and some halloumi recipes, of course! Hemp Seeds - What are Hemp Seeds?Hemp seeds are an up and coming superfood, especially used by vegetarians and those on a raw food diet. Find out why they hemp seeds are so good for you, learn about the nutritional value of hemp seeds, and how you can use them in your daily life. Hoisin SauceHoisin sauce is a Chinese barbeque-like sauce common in vegetarian Asian cooking. Lacto-vegetarianDefinition of lacto-vegetarian. MacrobioticDefinition of a macrobiotic diet. Millet - What is millet?If you like cooking with whole grains, try using millet! Although it may be most widely used a birdseed, millet is a whole grain that can be used like rice in vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free dishes. MisoDefinition of miso. Mulberries - What are Mulberries?Mulberries grow in abundance on fruitful trees. Learn how to use them and why they are good for your health. Mustard Greens – Health Benefits and Nutrition FactsMustard Greens – Health Benefits and Nutrition Facts Nama Shoyu - What is Nama Shoyu?Nama shoyu is a common ingredient in raw food cuisine. Find out what this obscure ingredient is, where it comes from and how to get it. Nutritional yeastDefinition of nutritional yeast. Ovo-vegetarianDefinition of ovo-vegetarian, a vegetarian who does not eat eggs. What is panko? A definition of panko.What is panko? What's the difference between panko and regular breadcrumbs? PescatarianDefinition of pescatarian, occasionally used to describe those who abstain from eating all meat and animal flesh with the exception of fish. Also spelled "Pescetarian". What is poultry seasoning?What is poultry seasoning? Is poultry seasoning vegetarian? If I'm vegetarian, can I eat poultry seasoning? Raw VeganDefinition of a raw vegan diet, also known as living foods. What are wheat berries? Wheatberry definitionNever cooked with wheatberries before or just wondering what a wheat berry is? Check out this simple definition and guide for everything you need to know about wheat berries. Wheatberries defined.  Quinoa - What is quinoa? Definition of QuinoaWhat is quinoa? Quinoa is a healthy whole grain (well, a seed actually) that is a healthy complete protein for vegetarians and vegans. Quinoa flakes - What are quinoa flakes?Quinoa is growing in popularity, but have you heard of or tried quinoa flakes yet? Quinoa flakes are a great gluten-free, vegetarian, and vegan breakfast idea! Find out what quinoa flakes are, how to use them and where to find them - a definition of quinoa flakes. RD - What is an RD?RD - What is an RD? - RD Defined. Also, information about vegetarian and vegan RDs. SeitanDefinition of seitan. TahiniDefinition of tahini, a vegan sesame seed paste used in many ethnic cuisines. TempehDefinition of tempeh. Teff - What is teff?Teff - What is teff? - Gluten-free whole grains Textured Vegetable Protein (TVP)Definition of textured vegetable protein, TVP. TofuDefinition of tofu. TofurkeyWhat is a Tofurkey? Trans Fats or Trans Fatty AcidsTrans fats, or trans fatty acids are found naturally in some foods and added to others in the form of hydrogenated oils. Read on to find out more about trans fats/trans fatty acids. VeganDefinition of vegan. Vegetarian/Lacto-ovo vegetarianDefinition of vegetarian, also known as lacto-ovo-vegetarian. Wakame SeaweedDefinition of wakame, a seaweed and raw and living food. Flexitarian - What is a "flexitarian"?Wondering what the word "flexitarian" means? Are you curious about a flexitarian diet or a semi-vegetarian diet? Maybe you already are a flexitarian and don't even know it! Here's an easy and simple definition of a flexitarian. What are sunchokes/Jerusalem artichokes?What are sunchokes? Wondering about those funny little tubers labeled "sunchokes" or "jerusalem artichokes" at the store? Here's a definition of sunchokes and what you need to know about cooking them. What is Israeli couscous? How to cook Israeli couscous?What is Israeli couscous? How to cook Israeli couscous? What is brown rice syrup?What is brown rice syrup? Is brown rice syrup vegan? How can it be used as a sugar substitute in cooking and baking?