Old Fashioned Coconut PuddingYou don't need eggs to make a thick creamy, old fashioned coconut pudding. This vegan recipe is super sweet. Decadent Vegetarian Rice Pudding RecipeDecadent Vegetarian Rice Pudding Recipe Vegan Pumpkin Custard RecipeVegan Pumpkin Custard Recipe Rich Mint Chocolate Mousse RecipeA rich and creamy homemade chocolate mousse recipe made from just a few simple ingredients, including fresh mint leaves for garnish. Absolutely divine! Quick and Easy Vegan Chocolate Banana PuddingOne of the best things about eating vegan is that often, the desserts, such as this chocolate banana pudding, are actually somewhat healthy! Or at least, vegan desserts aren't as unhealthy as the dairy and fat-laden versions. This quick and easy chocolate banana tofu pudding recipe is super low-fat and very low in calories too. Vegan Chocolate Pudding RecipeIndulge your sweet tooth and chocolate cravings with this easy homemade vegan chocolate pudding recipe - it's egg-free, dairy-free and still super indulgent. Just like a chocolate pudding should be, whether or not it's vegan. Quinoa banana "tapioca" pudding recipe Like tapioca pudding, but looking for a healthier, gluten-free and vegan version? Look no further! This healthy and delcious vegan dessert recipe is made from quiona and soy milk, and sweetened with either maple syrup or brown rice syrup, making it refined sugar-free as well.  Vanilla Pudding RecipeHomemade vegan pudding can be simple and quick to make, with just a few simple ingredients. Try adding different flavorings to vary the flavor, or use vanilla to make a vegan vanilla pudding recipe. Vegan Dark Chocolate MousseMake a rich and creamy vegan chocolate mousse from tofu! A reader who reviewed this tofu chocolate mousse recipe gave it five stars and said it was so good, she was licking the serving cup! An easy vegetarian and vegan dessert mousse recipe. Gourmet vegan chocolate mousse recipePaula from NJ wrote me to share this simple dairy-free and vegan chocolate mousse recipe. It's made with tofu, vegan chocolate, and a splash of cognac, Grand Marnier or rum extract. Vegan Rice Pudding RecipeVegan Rice Pudding Recipe Crock Pot Rice Pudding RecipeA vegan and diary-free rice pudding recipe made in the crockpot or slow cooker. Everyone likes their rice pudding a little bit different, so feel free to personalize this basic vegan crockpot recipe by adding cranberries, nutmeg, strawberries, or even coconut milk. Vegan pumpkin puddingA simple and easy vegan and dairy-free pumpkin pudding recipe for Thanksgiving or anytime you've got some pureed pumpkin on hand. Raw blueberry and cashew custard recipeAn elegant raw food custard dessert recipe made from blueberries and cashews. So healthy!